= Bake Volume =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: bakevolume
#tags: volumes, baking

"""Computes lighting values within volume primitives"""

Given a point light, this operator computes lighting values for all input
volume primitives and outputs them as volume triples representing Red, Green
and Blue values.  

The light transfer properties of the volumes can be modified to change their 
appearance when lit. 

The optional second input can specify the points to bake the light values onto.
These points are only used in the Gather stage.  The resulting point cloud can
be used in a shader using the point cloud functions.

@parameters

Group:
    The primitive group to compute lighting values for.
Lightfield Name:
    The generated lightfield volumes will use this name as a
    prefix to .x, .y, and .z for their own names.  This allows the
    light field to override shading attributes in Mantra.
Light Position:
    The position in world space of the light used to compute the volume
    lighting values.
Radiance:
    The intensity of the light being used to compute volume lighting values.
Light Color:
    An RGB scale to the light intensity.
Absorption Coefficient:
    Determines how much of the light's radiance is absorbed by the volume
    per unit density.
Absorption Color:
    An RGB scale to the absorption coefficient.
Scattering Coefficient:
    Determines the amount of light that is scattered (redirected) per unit
    density of the volume.
Scattering Color:
    An RGB scale to the scattering coefficient.  This affects the color of
    the scattered light, but the actual scattering events are controlled by
    the average value to ensure chromacity is preserved without excessive
    samples.
Emission Coefficient:
    Determines the amount of light per unit density that is released by 
    the volume when struck by a light ray.
Emission Color:
    An RGB scale to the emission coefficient.
Isotropic Ratio:
    The proportion of light that is assumed to be isotropically
    scattered (redirected in all directions evenly) whenever scattering
    occurs within the volume.
Compute Step Size:
    When set, the step size will be automatically computed from the voxel
    size rather than using a fixed value.
Step Size Scale:
    The number of voxels to step when __Compute Step Size__ is set.  
Step Size:
    The step size is used when simulating the behavior of light rays 
    within the volume.  A smaller step size will produce better results,
    but take longer to compute.  
Density Scale:
    Scales the density of the volume being baked.
Do Gathering:
    After the initial rays are sent through the field, a light field is
    constructed.  Then it us usually gathered to get the final result.
    Turning this off skips the gather stage, leaving the raw light field.
Do Multiple Scattering:
    Whether or not multiple scattering effects will be calculated.
Multiple Scatter Boost:
    A constant multiple to the multiple scattering contribution to
    the final light levels.
Secondary Rays Only:
    The resulting light field will only consist of the multiple
    scattered components, not the direct illumination.
Chromatic Scattering:
    If set, the initial rays will adjust their color when scattering to
    reflect the scatter color.
Number of Rays:
    The number of light rays used to simulate multiple scattering effects.
    Using more rays can improve the appearance of rendered volumes, but at
    the cost of longer computation times.  Insufficient rays will result in
    artifact streaks along the ray direction.  Turn off __Gather Rays__ to see
    the raw light fields and determine if this is an issue.
Gather Rays:
    The number of rays that are sent out when integrating the effects of the multi-scatter. This is independent of __Number of Rays__ as it applies
    to the gather step, not the Scatter Rays step.
K:
    Coefficient defining the directional tendencies of scattering within 
    the volume.  K ranges from -1, indicating perfect backward scattering,
    to 1, which is perfect forward scattering.  A value of 0 will cause
    unbiased, fully random scattering.
Optimize Light Transfer:
    When enabled, the operation will use previously computed light values
    wherever possible in order to reduce computation times.  
    
    The results of an optimized pass will not be as accurate as those of a 
    non-optimized one.
Optimized Ray Depth:
    How deeply into the volume an optimized pass will cast its light rays
    before using previously computed values.  
    
    Lower values result in faster, less accurate calculations, while 
    higher values cause longer computation times with more accurate results.

    NOTE:
        Values less than 2 are not recommended, because the validity of 
        previously computed values cannot be guaranteed with rays that
        short.
        
        Conversely, values greater than the voxel resolution of the volume
        being baked have no advantage over a non-optimized pass.  The 
        __Optimize Light Transfer__ option should be disabled instead.
Opacity Cutoff:
    At what level of transmission the gather rays should be terminated.


