= Capture Correct =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: capturecorrect
#icon: SOP/capturecorrect
#tags: capture, character

"""Adjusts capture regions and capture weights."""

This
is useful in cases when a SOP has been locked with cooked data between
Capture and Deform SOPs. Then, bone transformations may affect the skin
in an undesirable way due to outdated information stored at the locked
SOP. CaptureCorrect will readjust the transformations and the weights
for the data as if they were taken at the capture frame. CaptureCorrect
is also useful for cases where the capture regions have been adjusted by
painting and you want to correct some issues that may not be apparent
when painting, such as undesired weights that are very small.

CaptureCorrect affects the detail attributes and therefore needs to work
on the whole geometry and not specific groups.

@parameters
Capture Type:
    Choose between correcting bone capture regions and weights, or
    metaball capture regions and weights.
Correct Capture Regions:
    Toggle that determines whether capture regions are corrected. If
    turned off no update occurs on any of the capture regions.
Regions to Correct:
    A list of capture regions to correct. If empty, all regions are
    updated. Otherwise, only the capture included in the list are
    corrected. The list consists of capture regions separated by
    spaces, each enclosed in double quotes, for example,
    "chain_bone1/cregion 0" "chain_bone2/cregion 0".
Delete Stale Capture Regions:
    Remove data for the capture regions that do not exist anymore.
    Locked data may contain references to the bones or capture
    regions that have been deleted. This option allows to clean up
    obsolete references.
Regions to Remove:
    This field allows to specify additional capture regions to be
    removed from data, even if they are still valid. This is a list
    of regions separated by a space, each enclosed in double quotes.
    The capture region names should be the same as they appear in
    the point attributes (for example "chain_bone3/cregion 0")
Clamp Weights Below Low Threshold to Zero:
    Enables setting to 0 any capture weight that is less than the
    given low threshold.
Low Threshold:
    Specifies the value below which the capture weights are set to
    zero.
Clamp Weights Above High Threshold to One:
    Enables setting to 1 any capture weight that is greater than the
    given high threshold.
High Threshold:
    Specifies the value above which the capture weights are set to
    one.
Limit Regions:
    Enables limiting the number of weighted regions per point.
Maximum Regions:
    Specifies the maximum number of weighted regions per point. The
    current method is to sort for each point, the weights in
    descending order and then discarding the weights which exceed
    this maximum.
Re-normalize Capture Weights:
    After the stale regions have been cleaned up, the capture
    weights will not sum up to 1. This option renormalizes the
    capture weights, so that they add up to 1.

@related

- [Node:sop/capture]
- [Node:sop/cregion]
- [Node:sop/captureproximity]

