= Inflate =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: inflate
#icon: SOP/inflate
#tags: muscle, capture, character

"""Deforms the points in the first input to make room for the
inflation tool."""

The first input is inflated by taking a number of
inflation points. From each inflation point, the surrounding geometry is
moved away from the inflation point so as to account for the shape of
the inflation tool. The inflation points do not have to be inside the
tool geometry, but if they are outside, the tool geometry will be
implicitly expanded to contain the inflation points.

If two inputs are given, the second input is the inflation tool. If
three are given, the third input is the rest position of the inflation
tool. If a rest position is given, the rest inflation points are used to
determine sidedness of the inflation points. If the current inflation
point is on the other side of the geometry compared to the corresponding
rest inflation point, it will be moved back to lie within the geometry.
The Min Surf Distance controls this behavior.

For each point to inflate, one single inflation point is calculated and
the inflation is done with respect to that point. Instead of, or in
addition to, inflation points, inflation primitives may be specified.
Closed polygons will be assumed convex and planar, and the inflation
point will be the minimum point to the polygon. Open polylines will
create an inflation point for the minimum point on each line segment.
The set of inflation points found will then be interpolated. Those
within Center Overlap of the closest will be blended according to the
Blend Exponent.

@parameters

Group:
    Points to be affected by the inflation.

Tool Group:
    The primitives in the inflation tool that will be used as the
    tool geometry.

Center Group:
    The points in the inflation tool that will be used as inflation
    points.

Center Overlap:
    Controls the width of the band where inflation points will
    interact.

Blend Exponent:
    The fall off rate for the Center Overlap.

Min Surf Distance:
    This is the closest which the current inflation points can get
    to the first inputs surface, as measured along a line between
    the rest inflation point and the current inflation point. If
    disabled, no clipping is done.

Tightness:
    This controls the falloff of the inflation. A value of 3 will
    approximately preserve volume. A value of 2 will preserve area
    if the inflation is occurring inside a plane.

    This parameter can be modified on a per point basis.

Inflate to Farthest:
    Normally the inflation stops when it hits the first outgoing
    surface in the tool geometry. This option will cause it to
    inflate using the farthest intersection. This will produce bad
    results if the geometry is not convex with respect to the
    inflation point, but can allow the use of multiple overlapped
    geometry.

Maximum Inflation Distance:
    This can be used to minimize the bad effects of Inflate to
    Farthest when working with non-convex geometry. It specifies the
    maximum distance which can be considered a valid inflation - any
    geometry farther than that is ignored.

    This parameter can be modified on a per-point basis.

@related

- [Node:sop/bulge]

