= Join =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: join
#icon: SOP/join
#tags: merge, model, curve, surface

"""The Join op connects a sequence of faces or surfaces into a single
primitive that inherits their attributes."""

TIP:
    You can use Join on open polylines.

The Join op connects a sequence of faces or surfaces into a single
primitive that inherits their attributes. Faces of different types can
be joined together, and so can surfaces. Mixed face-surface types are
not allowed. The surfaces do not have to have the same number of rows or
columns in the side being joined. Spline types of different orders and
parameterization are all valid inputs. The Join op converts simpler
primitives such as polygons into Beziers and NURBS if necessary.

Joining is different from filleting (see [Fillet SOP|Node:sop/fillet])
or stitching (see [Stitch SOP|Node:sop/stitch]) because it takes _n_
primitives and converts them into one after possibly changing the
connected ends of the primitives. Filleting creates a new primitive
between each input pair and never affects the original shapes. Stitching
changes the original shapes but does not change the number of resulting
primitives.

This Operation allows you to select a sequence of faces or surfaces and
connect them, forming a single primitive that inherits their attributes.
When you select a primitive click on it close to the end that you want
connected. A small white ring is displayed at that end. You can change
your mind any time by clicking on another end of that primitive. After
you have selected two primitives in this way (both must be faces or
surfaces) they will be blended into one according to the parameters
currently set. If only one primitive is selected, clicking on either end
will cause the primitive to join to itself. This is one way to wrap a
primitive in the modeler using all the flexibility of a join operation.
The join is not finalized until you type ((Enter)) or click on the right
mouse button. Until then you can change both the connection ends as
already explained, and the blending parameters.

Once you commit the join, it is automatically selected and a new ring is
placed at one end. This allows joining several curves or surfaces in
sequence by simply selecting the 'next' curve or surface end to join,
completing it (right mouse) and continuing. You can also click on the
next pair of faces or curves if you have entered the Join Operation in a
"sticky" way ( ((Shift)) click on its icon); otherwise it returns to the
Select Operation.

The pairs joined together in the operation need not be of the same type
or degree, nor do they need to have the same number of CVs. For example,
it is possible to join a polygon with a quadratic Bezier curve and with
a cubic NURBS curve. The Model Editor converts the simpler types to the
more complex - polygon or mesh to Bezier and Bezier and NURBS. In the
above example, the new curve will be a cubic NURBS because cubic is the
highest of the three degrees and NURBS is the more complex type.

The number of CVs and the type of connection are determined by the
"Blend" option, by the tolerance and multiplicity parameters. A blended
curve or surface will alter its ends by converting them into a single,
common point, row or column respectively. The amount of change can be
reduced by lowering the tolerance. When the tolerance is zero the inputs
do not change at all: the faces are connected by a straight line and the
surfaces by a flatish, linear patch. When not blended, the original
shapes are not affected at all, regardless of the tolerance. Instead,
the ends are connected by an arc-like fillet. Nonetheless, the result is
a single primitive. The multiplicity affects the number of knots
inserted at the blend point and thus allows for smooth or pointed
connections. When "blend" is not _on_, multiplicity influences the shape
and the tightness of the fillet.
        
@parameters

Group:
    Subset of geometry to join.
    
Blend:
    How primitives are joined.
    
Tolerance:
    #id: tolerance

    If "blend" is _on_, the tolerance indicates how much blending
    can affect the shapes near the ends being connected. The smaller
    the tolerance, the closer will a point or knot be inserted to
    the end-points. When the tolerance is zero the inputs do not
    change at all: the faces are connected by a straight line and
    the surfaces by a flatish, linear patch.

    If "blend" is _off_, the tolerance acts as a scaling factor
    to the two ends of the fillet connecting the end-points.
    
Bias:
    #id: bias

    Determines which side is affected more when using the blended
    method.
    
Multiplicity:
    Affects the number of knots inserted at the blend point and thus
    allows for smooth or pointed connections. The connection will be
    pointed when the multiplicity is _on_. When "blend" is not _on_,
    an active multiplicity influences the shape and the tightness of
    the fillet by forcing a multiple knot insertion _on_.

    The fillet tends to be better behaved when multiplicity in _on_.
    However, this means that the resulting curve or surface is built
    with a discontinuity at the connection points and might not lend
    itself to point modeling in that area too well.

    Multiplicity has no effect on polygons and meshes.
    
Connect Closest Ends:
    Connects primitives based on their ends' proximity rather than
    their order in the group or in the geometry detail.
    
Direction:
    Parametric direction of the joining operation.
    
Join:
    Optionally join subgroups of primitives.
    
N:
    #id: inc

    Increment to use for subgroup joining.

Wrap Last to First:
    Closes the connection of the primitive.
    
Keep Primitives:
    Retains original geometry.
    
Only Connected:
    Primitives in the sub group will be joined only if they share
    incoming and outgoing points. This only applies to curve and
    polygon primitives.

@related

- [Node:sop/fillet]
- [Node:sop/stitch]
- [Node:sop/bridge]
