= Match Size =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: matchsize
#icon: MISC/generic
#tags: transform, points

"""Resizes and recenters the geometry according to reference
geometry."""

The Match Size operation moves and scales the first input to match the
second input.  If no second input is present, the provided position and
size are used to define the destination bounding box.

@parameters

Restore Transform:
    Applies the inverse of the transform stored in the given
    detail attribute.  If it was created by a Match Size's Stash
    Transform, this will have the effect of restoring the geometry
    to its original space.

Translate:
    Whether to translate the object to match the reference box.

Alignment Position:
    If no second input is given, this position is used for
    alignment.  It represents the center of the box unless the
    relevant axis' justification is Min or Max, in which case
    it represents the edge of the reference box.

Justify X/Y/Z:
    Controls how the each axis is translated to match the
    reference box.
    
    None:
	No movement on the x-axis
    Min:
	The minimum of the object's bounding box is aligned to the minimum of the reference's bounding box.
    Center:
	The center of the object's bounding box is aligned to the center of the reference's bounding box.
    Max:
	The maximum of the object's bounding box is aligned to the maximum of the reference's bounding box.

Scale to FIt:
    Whether to scale the geometry to match the size of the
    reference box.

Size:
    If no second input is given, the size of the reference bounding box along
    xyz axes.

Uniform Scale:
    Preserve the aspect ratio of the geometry by scaling all axes
    equally.

Scale Axis:
    In case of uniform scale not all axes can necessarily be fit.
    This determines which axis is used.

    X:
	The x-axis will be matched.
    Y:
	The y-axis will be matched.
    Z:
	The z-axis will be matched.
    Best Fit:
	The object will be fully contained in the reference box.

Scale X/Y/Z:
    Controls whether each axis will be scaled to the reference box.

Stash Transform:
    Stores the transform applied to the geometry into the given
    detail attribute.  This can then be undone with another
    Match Axis and the Restore Transform option, or applied
    directly with the Transform by Attribute SOP.

@inputs

Source Geometry:
    The geometry which will be resized to fit the destination.
    
Destination Size:
    The geometry whose bounding box will be used to determine how
    to center and size the source.

@related

- [Node:sop/bound]
- [Node:sop/xform]
