#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: musclestrokebuilder


= Muscle Stroke Builder = (musclestrokebuilder)


"""Assists the creation of a Muscle or Muscle Rig by allowing you to draw a stroke on a projection surface."""

The Muscle Stroke Builder asset is automatically created by, and included within Muscle objects and Muscle Rig objects.
This utility asset is designed to support the creation of a Muscle or Muscle Rig by means of a stroke drawn on a projection surface. 
NOTE:
    This stroke-builder asset is confined to being a SOP level sub-asset of Muscles and Muscle Rigs.  It cannot be added to SOP networks outside of these contexts.  A Muscle object or Muscle Rig object must exist as the containing asset for this utility to work properly.

    
When a stroke is created, parameter values on this asset are automatically exported to the parameters of the containing muscle or muscle rig.

@parameters

Accept Stroke:
    Pressing this button will exit the Stroke State, configure the containing muscle or muscle rig asset with the stroke parameters, and make the containing muscle or muscle rig the current node.
    
Accept and Create New Stroked Muscle:
    Pressing this button will configure the containing muscle or muscle rig with the stroke parameters.  A copy of the current muscle asset is created, and the viewport is placed in the stroke state of the new copy so you can continue to apply strokes.
    
Clear Stroke:
    Pressing this button clears the local stroke data.
    
Display Proxy Muscle:
    While drawing strokes, a temporary muscle is created to help visualize the radius, placement, and profile of the stroke in progress.

Depth Projection:
        Along Surface Normal:
            The stroke is applied to the projection surface, and then displaced to a __Depth__ along the surface normal of the surface.
        Along View Direction:
            The stroke is applied to the projection surface, and then displaced to a __Depth__ along the direction vector parallel to the line of sight.
            
Depth:
    The depth, relative to the projection surface, that the stroke will be projected to.  
    
Profile:
    This ramp parameter is a graphical tool that modifies the radius scale of the stroked muscle or muscle rig from one end to the other.  The profile curve maps from the head to the tail of the stroked muscle (ie. beginning to end of your stroke) to the left to right scale values on this ramp.
    The vertical axis of the graph maps to the __Profile Minimum__ and __Profile Maximum__ values.
    
Profile Minimum:
    This is the minimum value represented by the ramp parameter.
    
Profile Maximum:
    This is the maximum value represented by the ramp parameter.
