#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: sblend
#icon: SOP/sblend

#tags: reshape, blend, morph

= Sequence Blend =

"""Sequence Blend lets you do 3D Metamorphosis between shapes and
Interpolate point position, colors..."""

Sequence Blend lets you do 3D Metamorphosis between shapes and
Interpolate point position, colors, point normals, and texture
coordinates between shapes.

The Sequence Blend does not blend attributes that are not checked on. This results in those attribute being switched over when the Blend Factor parameter switches over to the next input using the expression:
floor(ch("blend"))+1

For example, a blend value of 0.5 will blend the position of the first ( 0 ) and second input's ( 1 ) point positions (if checked on) as well as any of the checked off attributes (Color, Normal, Texture uv's) while all the other attributes are held to the first input's contribution. When blend value equals 1 and remains less than 2, the unblended attributes switch over to the second input.


@parameters
    Blend Factor:
        #channels: /blend

        Controls blending between consecutive inputs.
    Blend Position:
        Point positions are blended.
    Blend Colors:
        Point and primitive colors and alphas are blended.
    Blend Normals:
        Point normals are blended.
    Blend Texture:
        Point texture coordinates are blended.
    Blend Voxel Data:
	Matching volumes will blend their data.  This is not done by spatial
	position, but by absolute voxel index.
    Shortest Path Transform Blending:
	Enables use of spherical linear interpolation to blend primitive
	transforms.
    Point Id Attribute:
	If this attribute exists, it will be used to find corresponding points
	in the different blend shapes.  For example, using id will allow
	particle systems to find matching points even if particles are deleted.
	If it does not exist or is blank, point numbers will be used for the
	matching.
    Primitive Id Attribute:
	If this attribute exists, it will be used to find corresponding
	primitives in the different blend shapes.  For example, using name
	will allow fluid systems to find matching volumes even if volumes
	are reordered.  If it does not exist or is blank, primitive numbers
	will be used for the matching.

@related
    - [Node:sop/blendshapes]
    - [Node:sop/timeblend]

