#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: vdbactivate
#icon: COMMON/openvdb

#tags: vdb, volumemix, vdbcombine, vdbvisualize

= VDB Activate =

"""Activates voxel regions of a VDB for further processing."""

[Include:volume_types]

Many volume operations, such as Volume Mix and Volume VOP, only process
active voxels in the sparse volume.  This can be a problem if you know a
certain area in space will evaluate to a non-zero value, but it is
inactive in your original volume.

The VDB Activate SOP provides tools for manipulating this active region.
It can also fill the newly added regions to a constant value, useful
for interactively determining what is changing.

TIP: To see the current active region, you can use the VDB Visualize SOP
     and set it to Tree Nodes, Disabled; Active Constant Tiles, Wireframe Box; 
     and Active Voxels, Wireframe Box.

@parameters

See [specifying volumes|/model/volumes#group].

Source Group:
    The vdb primitives to change the active region in.
    
Operation:
    The vdb's current region is combined with the specified region
    in one of several ways.

	Union:
	    All voxels that lie in the specified region will
	    be activated.  Other voxels will retain their original
	    activation states.
	
	Intersect:
	    Any voxel not in the specified region will be deactivated
	    and set to the background value.
	
	A - B:
	    Any voxel that is in the specified region will be deactivated
	    and set to the background value.
	
	Copy:
	    If a voxel is outside the specified region, it is set
	    to inactive and the background value.  If it is inside,
	    it is marked as active.

Value:
    In the Union and Copy modes, when voxels are marked active they can also be
    initialized to a constant value.  This will be done to all voxels that are
    made active by the specification - including those that were already
    active.

    Thus, the Voxel Coordinats option will have the effect of setting a cube
    area to a constant value.

Position:
    This defines a cube in SOP space.  Any voxel that touches this
    cube will be part of the selected region.

Voxel:
    Defines minimum and maximum values of a box in voxel-coordinates.  This is
    an inclusive range, so includes the maximum voxel. 

Expand:
    Expand the active area by the specified number of voxels.  Does not support
    operation or setting of values.

Reference:
    Uses the second input to determine the selected region.

    Bound Group:
	Which primitives of the second input contribute to the bounding box
	computation.

    Activate by VDB Regions:
	If turned on, only VDBs are used for activation.  They will activate
	wherever they themselves are already active.  This can be used to
	transfer the active region from one VDB to another, even if they are
	not aligned.

	If turned off, the bounding box of the chosen primitives are used
	instead and activated as if they were specified as World Positions.

Deactivate:
    Any voxels that have the background value will be deactivated.  This
    is useful for cleaning up the result of an operation that may
    have speculatively activated a large band of voxels, but may
    not have placed non-background values in all of them.

    For example, you may have a VDB Activate before a Volume VOP
    with Expand turned on to ensure you have room to displace the volume.
    Then when you are done, you can use one with Deactivate to free
    up the voxels you didn't need to use.

Prune Tolerance:
    After building the VDB grid there may be undetected constant tiles.
    This tolerance is used to detect constant regions and collapse them.
    Such areas that are within the background value will also be marked
    inactive.

@related

- [Node:sop/vdb]
- [Node:sop/vdbactivatesdf]
- [Node:sop/volumevop]
- [Node:sop/volumemix]

