#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: volumerasterizehair
#icon: SOP/volumerasterizehair

#tags: volumes, merge, curve

= Volume Rasterize Hair =

"""Converts fur or hair to a volume for rendering."""

This SOP will take curve geometry and convert it to a VDB volume suitable
for rendering. Curves will first be converted to a point cloud by
resampling, which are then rasterized to the resulting volume. The volume
can contain the average hair tangent vector in the `tangentu` field which
can be used in instead of `dPdt` in hair shaders.

Using VDB volumes to render hair can speed up rendering of background
characters with hair, since it avoids the time and memory overhead of 
rendering curves directly. It can also be used to implement a global 
illumination system for hair, which would otherwise be very expensive or
noisy due the low probability involved in point sampling hair strands.

@parameters
    Voxel Size:
        Size of the voxels in the created volumes.
 
    Sampling Quality:
        Controls the resampling point density when converting curves to
	points. The default of 1 will create points along the curve with
	spacing approximately equal to the voxel size. Larger value for the
	sampling quality will decrease the point spacing, improving
	accuracy.

    Density Scale:
        Scales the values in the resulting density volume by a constant
	factor.

    Width Scale:
        Scales the width of the rasterized curves.

    Color Shop Path:
	Specifies a CVEX shader to be applied after resampling to create or
	modify attributes on the resampled points. The shader may use the
	`curveu` float parameter to determine the parametric position on
	the curve - for example to evaluate a color ramp.

    Primitives per Batch:
	To avoid excessive memory use for the temporary resample points,
	this parameter limits the number of primitives that are resampled
	and rasterized at a time. Internally, a [ForEach SOP|Node:sop/foreach] iterates over
	each batch.

    Rasterize Tangent:
	A volume containing the average hair tangent vector will be created
	when enabled.

    Tangent Voxel Scale:
	Specify a scale on the voxel size for the generated `tangentu` field.

    Tangent Filter Width:
	Controls the minimum filter width to use when choosing a tangent
	vector for rendering.

	NOTE:
	    When filtering, the `tangentu` field isn't averaged like
	    density, color or other attributes. This ensures that the
	    tangent vectors are not blended together, which could produce
	    new invalid tangent vectors that didn't exist in the original
	    curves. Instead, the rasterization algorithm preserves the
	    original tangents by randomly selecting a single tangent vector
	    for each voxel. In mantra, these tangents are randomly sampled
	    to find a plausible tangent vector in the neighborhood of each
	    shading point. This parameter controls the search radius used
	    by mantra to find these candidate tangent vectors.

	    In general, larger values will reduce noise but increase
	    blurring of the tangent field while smaller values will be
	    sharper but will render with voxel grid noise. The default of 4
	    will allow 4^3 or 64 candidate samples which will usually
	    render with little noise.

    Color Voxel Scale:
	Specify a scale on the voxel size for the generated Cd field, if
	there is a `Cd` point attribute on the input geometry

    Velocity Blur Type:
	Controls the way the velocity attribute `v` is treated during
	rasterization.

	No Velocity Blur:
	    Disable velocity blur
	Velocity Field:
	    Create a VDB vector field for the velocity and rasterize the
	    particle `v` values into this field. This option will generally
	    result in correct occlusion when rendering the volume with
	    nearby surfaces, but it can produce incorrect results when
	    nearby curves have different velocities.
	Rasterize Velocity Blur:
	    Bake the velocity blur into the generated volume by averaging
	    along the motion path. This option will produce more consistent
	    motion blur when nearby curves have different velocities but
	    can lead to incorrect occlusion.

    Velocity Voxel Scale:
	Specify a scale on the voxel size for the generated v field, if
	there is a `v` point attribute on the input geometry.

    Shutter:
	The shutter time to use for velocity blur rasterization.

    Shutter Offset:
	The shutter offset to use for velocity blur rasterization.

    Blur Samples:
	The number of motion blur samples to use for velocity blur
	rasterization. Larger numbers of samples will produce smoother and
	more accurate results but will take more time to compute.

@related
    - [Node:sop/volumerasterizecurve]
    - [Node:sop/volumerasterizeparticles]

