#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: volumestamp
#icon: SOP/volumestamp

#tags: volumes, merge

= Volume Stamp =

"""Stamps volumes instanced on points into a single target volume."""

The Volume Stamp operation  takes a cloud of points and instanced volumes onto
it, and then stamps the result into the target destination volume.

@parameters
    Destination:
	Which volumes or VDBs in the first input to stamp into.
	If no name attribute is present, there should be a single
	volume or VDB and is treated as the "density" target.

	If more than one is present, a name attribute should be
	present.  The name is used to compare with the volumes
	cooked in the third input.

	All of the destination must be aligned and of the same
	time (vdb or volume).

    Stamp Points:
	A group of points in the second input to instance volumes onto.  All the normal instancing attributes will be used, matching the behavior of the [Copy SOP|Node:sop/copy] with transform points turned on.

    Merge Method:
	How to blend each incoming volume in with the base grid.
	Because it is not defined what order the volumes will
	actually be stamped in, this must be symmetric.

    Samples per Voxel:
	If stamping high resolution volumes into a lower resolution volume,
	aliasing artifacts can occur.  To avoid this, you can make more than
	one sample per destination voxel.

	If this is 1, no random sampling is done, instead a single sample is
	done in the middle of the voxel.

    Sampling Seed:
	The seed used for generating the random samples.

    Premultiply Input by Density:
	The generated attributes other than density will be multiplied by the
	'density' field, if present.  This allows for proper mixing of
	normalized fields such as colour or velocity.

    Normalize Output by Density:
	Divide the generated fields by the density field to undo the effect of
	the premultiplication pass.

    Number of Stamps:
	To provide variety in the sorts of volumes stamped, you can have the
	third input be controlled by `stamp()` expressions.  This controls the
	number of point attributes from the second input that will be promoted
	for stamping.

	NOTE:
	        All identical stamp values are collated for a single cook of the third input to minimize the number of cooks required if there are duplicate point attribute values.

    Enable Stamping:
	Turns on stamping of this particular attribute.

    Attribute:
	A point attribute on the second input.
    Stamp:
	The name of the stamp variable to access with the stamp() expression.
	If blank, the attribute will be made ALL CAPS and used.

@related
    - [Node:sop/volumerasterizepoints]
    - [Node:sop/volumerasterize]

