= Volume Rasterize Particles =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: volumerasterizeparticles
#icon: SOP/volumerasterizeparticles
#tags: volumes, merge

"""Converts a point cloud into a volume."""

The Volume Rasterize particles operation takes a cloud of points and fills
a volume accordingly. If the input volume has more than one named
primitive, the named volumes will be filled with data from point attributes
that match the name of the volume. Currently only VDB vector volumes
support filling from vector point attributes.

The point attributes `pscale` and `density` are used to control the
generated volume.

This is a highly specialized node designed for filling the volume
as fast as possible, so a lot of the controls present in [Volume Rasterize
Points|Node:sop/volumerasterizepoints] are not available.

Filtering is automatically performed to ensure small particles will always
contribute to the resulting volume.  This means that when you rasterize to a
particularly low resolution volume, things will seem to fatten.

The `volumefilterstochastic` integer primitive attribute can be used to
override how points are filtered to voxels. For fields that can't be
meaningfully averaged together, setting this attribute to a value of 1 on
that volume primitive will cause only one of the overlapping particles to
contribute to each voxel, avoiding any averaging. This parameter only
applies to fields other than density.

NOTE:
    This does not support rasterizing into tapered volumes.

@parameters

Destination:
    Which volumes or VDBs in the first input to stamp into.
    Each volume or VDB and is treated as a "density" target.

Particles:
    A group of points in the second input to rasterize.

Filter:
    The filter shape that to use when splatting particles. The default
    gaussian filter will produce smooth blobs and is useful for larger
    particles. When the particle size is smaller than the voxel size, a
    box filter will produce a similar result in less time.

Density Scale:
    The `density` attribute will be scaled by this.  If there is no
    `density`, 1 will be used as the reference.

Particle Scale:
    The `pscale` attribute will be scaled by this.  If there is no
    `pscale`, 1 will be used as the reference.

Minimum Filter Size:
    If the particle's radius is much smaller than a voxel, it can appear to
    pop from grid-location to grid-location as it moves.  This adds an
    additional blur to particles to ensure they are this fraction of a
    voxel.  A value of 1 ensures the main-support for each particle is at
    least a voxel, ensuring that any movement of the particle will
    correspond to a smooth change in voxel values, at the cost of less
    sharp boundaries.

Velocity Blur:
    Enables rasterization of velocity blur. Velocity blurred particles
    are rasterized by creating multiple point samples along the
    velocity path and distributing the density of the original point
    among these samples.

Shutter:
    The shutter time to use for velocity blur rasterization.

Shutter Offset:
    The shutter offset to use for velocity blur rasterization.

Blur Samples:
    The number of motion blur samples to use for velocity blur
    rasterization. Larger numbers of samples will produce smoother and
    more accurate results but will take more time to compute.

@related

- [Node:sop/volumerasterizepoints]
