#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: wirecapture
#icon: SOP/wirecapture

#tags: reshape, capture, character, curves

= Wire Capture =

"""Captures surfaces to a wire,
allowing you to edit the wire to deform the surface."""

WireCapture works in conjunction with the WireDeform SOP by assigning
wire capture weights to points that fall within a given radius of the
capture primitives in the second input. The primitives are typically
bezier or NURBs curves although primitives such as NURBs grids can also
be used. The closer the point is to the primitives from the second
input, the stronger the point is attached, ie. higher weight value.

The WireCapture SOP will not visibly change the geometry (except to
possibly add point colors for feedback). To actually change the
geometry, append a WireDeform SOP with the same second input.


@parameters
    Group:
        Optional point group to assign capture weights. If empty, this
        implies that all points should be assigned.

    == Parameters ==

        Kernel Function:
            [Dropoff
            function|/nodes/sop/metaball#kernels]
            used to convert the distance of a point to a capture
            primitive weight. This function is normalized according to
            each primitive's capture parameters.
        Treat Polygons As Lines:
            This specifies the behavior when the capture primitives
            from the second input are polygons. If this is turned on
            (default), then each closed polygon is treated a line
            primitive starting from its first vertex. If off, then each
            closed polygon is used as a face primitive with uv
            coordinates based off of the first three vertices.
        Destroy Existing Weights:
            This specifies whether existing wire capture weight
            attributes are destroyed. If off, then a Blend Factor can be
            given to say how the new capture weights are blended with
            the ones already in the input geometry. Note that since the
            capturing is based on primitive order, all layered
            WireCapture SOPs which have this parameter turned off must
            have the same second input.
        Visualize Weighting:
            If on, this will generate point color attributes reflecting
            the wire capture weights.
        Visualize Type:
            This specifies the type of visualization used when Visualize
            Weighting is turned on. The Single Primitive visualize type
            shows the weight of each primitive along a color gradient.
            For points affected by multiple primitives, it will use the
            blended deformation weight for coloring. Multiple
            Primitives uses a blend of primitive colors found in the
            second input. If they don't exist, then Single Primitive is
            used.
        Visualize Mode:
            This specifies the gradient used for visualization.

            Infra-red:
                Utilizes the entire color spectrum where they range from
                blue (0) to red (1).
            White to Red:
                Provides a gradient which varies from white (0) to red
                (1).
            Grayscale:
                Provides a gradient which ranges from black (0) to white
                (1).
            Black Body:
                Ranges from black (0) to red, yellow, then white (1).
        Zero Weight Point Color:
            This specifies the color used for points which are not
            affected by any capture primitives when using the Multiple
            Primitive visualize type.

    == Capture ==

        Initialize From Primitives:
            This will initialize the parameters below using the
            primitives found in the second input. An entry is created
            for each primitive using it's primitive number.
        Initialize From Groups:
            This will initialize the parameters below using the
            primitive groups found in the second input. An entry is
            created for each named primitive group.
        Number of Primitives:
            This specifies the number of primitive parameter sets that
            we wish to capture with. Each set below has a toggle to
            indicate whether it should be active.
        Primitive:
            This specifies the primitive group for which the Subgroup,
            Falloff Start, U Radius and Lookup, and U Range parameters
            apply.
        Subgroup:
            This specifies the subgroup of points (within that listed in
            the Group parameter) that the parameters below are
            assigned.
        Min/Max Weight:
            This gives the range to scale weight values into.
        Falloff Start:
            This is a percentage of the current radius from which points
            within are assigned a weight of 1. The values for this must
            be between 0 and 1. It may vary along the primitive's
            parametric u value if a channel exists in the Lookup
            parameter.
        U Radius and Lookup:
            The two parameter components here are multiplied together to
            determine the effective capturing radius of the primitives.
            If the second component (Lookup) contains a channel, then it
            is evaluated using the current u value of the primitive
            instead of time. This allows you to specify a varying radius
            along the u length of the primitive. The length of the
            channel (ie. from its first to last key) is scaled to the u
            length of the primitive. Note that if the lookup curve is a
            channel reference, then the length of the channel must match
            that of the referenced one.
        U Range:
            This specifies a u subrange of the primitive to use for
            capturing. The first component specifies the start u value
            and the second component gives the ending u value. Both of
            these must be between 0 and 1. Furthermore, the start value
            must be less than or equal to the end value.

@related
    - [Node:sop/wiredeform]

