#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: wiredeform
#icon: SOP/wiredeform

#tags: reshape, capture, character

= Wire Deform =

"""Deforms geometry captured to a curve via the Wire Capture node."""


@parameters
    Group:
        Optional point group to limit the points which are deformed. If
        empty, all points are deformed.
    Rest Group:
        Specifies the primitive groups to used for deforming from the
        second input. This is currently only used for the Initialize
        From Rest Groups parameter button.

    == Parameters ==

        Blending:
            Specifies the method used for blending displacements for
            points which are affected by more than one primitive. The
            current options are:

            Max Displace:
                The individual displacements are added together and the
                length of the result is clamped to the maximum of the
                individual ones.
            Biased Displace:
                The result is a normalized weighted average using the
                individual displacement lengths raised to the exponent
                specified in the Tension parameter.
            Weighted:
                The result is normalized weighted average of the
                individual displacements according to their weight value
                assigned by WireCapture. Each weight is raised to the
                exponent specified by the Tension parameter.
        Tension:
            If the Blending parameter is Biased Displace or Weighted,
            then this specifies the exponent used. The larger the value,
            the greater the bias will be towards the larger weight
            values giving a higher "tension".
        Transform Local Frame:
            Controls the rotation of the local frames on the curve
            (wire). Rotating a local frame causes the deformed point on
            a geometry to rotate around the curve point that captured
            it. Aligning local frame on the curve makes the deformed
            points follow the curve more closely. The current options
            are:

            No Transform:
                The local frames on the curve will not be aligned with
                the local frames of the deforming curve. The deformed
                geometry will be only translated.
            Align Tangent:
                Only the tangent vector of the rest frame will be
                aligned with the local tangent of the deforming curve.
                This option will rotate the deformed geometry so that
                any vector on a rest geometry that was parallel to the
                capturing tangent of the curve will appear to be
                parallel to the tangent of the deforming curve.
            Align Tangent And Attrib Normal:
                If a normal attribute is specified for the deforming
                curve then the deformed geometry is rotated so that any
                vector that was parallel to the normal in the rest
                arrangement will be also parallel in the deformed
                space.
        Treat Polygons As Lines:
            This specifies the behavior used for closed polygon
            primitives when told to shift points along primitives in the
            U Deform parameter. If on, then the tangents shoot off at
            first and last vertices of the closed polygon primitive. If
            off, then the tangent of the last vertex will shoot off from
            right before it wraps to the first vertex. The value of this
            parameter should be the same as the one specified in the
            WireCapture SOP used.
	Recompute Point Normals:
	    If enabled, this will recompute the point normals after
	    deformation.
	Assume Only Coordinate Changes In Input:
	    Enables the assumption that only point positions need to be
	    re-cached when the input geometry has changed to allow faster
	    cooking. Unpredictable results will occur with this enabled if
	    attributes or topology changes.

        Visualize Weighting:
            If on, this will generate point color attributes reflecting
            the wire capture weights.
        Visualize Type:
            This specifies the type of visualization used when Visualize
            Weighting is turned on.

            Single Primitive:
                Shows the weight of each primitive along a color
                gradient. For points affected by multiple primitives, it
                will use the blended deformation weight for coloring.
            Multiple Primitives:
                Uses a blend of primitive colors found in the second
                input. If they don't exist, then Single Primitive is
                used.
        Visualize Mode:
            This specifies the gradient used for visualization.

            Infra-red:
                Utilizes the entire color spectrum where they range from
                blue (0) to red (1).
            White to Red:
                Provides a gradient which varies from white (0) to red
                (1).
            Grayscale:
                Provides a gradient which ranges from black (0) to white
                (1).
            Black Body:
                Ranges from black (0) to red, yellow, then white (1).
        Zero Weight Point Color:
            This specifies the color used for points which are not
            affected by any capture primitives when using the Multiple
            Primitive visualize type.

    == Deform ==

        Initialize From Rest Primitives:
            This will initialize the parameters below using the
            primitives found in the second input. An entry is created
            for each primitive using it's primitive number.
        Initialize From Rest Groups:
            This will initialize the parameters below using the
            primitive groups found in the second input. An entry is
            created for each named primitive group.
        Number of Deformers:
            This specifies the number of deformer parameter sets that we
            wish deform. Each set below has a toggle to indicate whether
            it should be active.
        Primitive:
            This specifies the primitive group for which the Scale, U
            Deform, and Clamp to Ends parameters apply.
        Scale:
            The specifies a radial scale around the deforming primitive
            to apply.
        U Deform:
            This specifies a parametric u range to deform the points
            along their capturing primitives. The first component
            specifies the new start u value and the second component
            gives the new end u value. The start value must be less than
            or equal to the end value. These values are relative to the
            U Range values of their corresponding primitive specified in
            the WireCapture SOP. For example, if the point was captured
            to a primitive using the u range of `[0.3,0.7]`, then the U
            Deform parameters will map a value of 0 to 0.3 and a value
            of 1 to 0.7.
        Clamp to Ends:
            If on, then when the U Deform parameters cause points to be
            extended beyond the length of the deforming primitive, they
            will be clamped to the maximum/minimum u values. If off,
            then the points are allowed to extend off the primitive
            using the tangents at the end points.
@inputs
    First:
        Input geometry to deform. Must be first captured using
        WireCapture.
    Second:
        Rest primitives. Must match third input in terms of number of
        primitives and their order. This should be the same as the
        second input into the WireCapture SOP. If it is desired that the
        points be deformed long a different path, then they may be
        modified from the second input of the WireCapture.
    Third:
        Deforming primitives. Must match second input in terms of number
        of primitives. This is typically a Edit SOP branched off from
        the sop piped in the second input.

@related
    - [Node:sop/wirecapture]

