#type: node
#context: dop
#internal: copydata
#icon: DOP/copydata

= Copy Data =

""" Creates multiple copies of the input data. """

Much like the [Copy SOP|Node:sop/copy], this DOP creates multiple copies of the data
connected to it. If several data nodes are connected to this node, each
one is copied the specified number of times. For each copy of the data,
a global parameter CY is set to the current copy number. 

This global value can be accessed from the connected data nodes using the stamp
expression function. This way each copy of the data can be customized
rather than attaching exactly the same data over and over. The global
parameter NCY is set to the total number of copies that will be made.

In addition to these standard global parameters, any number of custom
global parameters can also be created. The CY and NCY values are
available as local variables when determining the values of these global
parameters.


@parameters
    Number of Copies:
        The number of copies of the input data items this node should
        create. 
        
        If this value is less than or equal to zero, no data is
        output from this node. As with other data manipulation nodes,
        this node always knows which simulation object is being modified
        at any given time. This means that the object specific local
        variables can be used in this parameter to change the number of
        copies on a per-object basis.
    Number of Variables:
        Sets the number of global parameters that will be set for each
        copy of the input data that is created. 
        
        These global parameters
        are accessible from the input data node using the stamp
        expression function.
    Variable # Name:
        The name for this variable. This is the value that must be
        passed as the second argument to the stamp expression function
        to access this variable.
    Variable Evaluation:
        Controls the way in which this variable is evaluated.

        Evaluate For Each Copy:
            The value for this variable is calculated for each copy of
            the data. 
            
            This option provides the most flexibility in terms
            of generating the global parameter values, but is the most
            time consuming if large numbers of copies are involved.
        Evaluate Once:
            The value for this variable is calculated only once when
            the CY local variable is set to zero. 
            
            This approach will not
            result in each copy of input data being customized, but
            provides an easy way to pass information from this node up
            to the input data nodes.
        Evaluate Once, One Token Per Copy:
            The parameter describing this variable is evaluated only
            once. 
            
            In this mode, the String Value is evaluated regardless
            of the Variable Type parameter. Then for each copy of the
            input data, the corresponding token within the evaluated
            string is used to set the global parameter value. The token
            is treated as a float or string value, depending on the
            Variable Type parameter. 
            
            So for example, suppose the Variable Type is Float, the String Value is "0 1 2 3", and the Number of Copies is 6. The global parameter value set
            for the 6 copies of the input data would be 0, 1, 2, 3, 0,
            and 1.
    Variable Type:
        Specifies whether the global parameter is a floating point
        number or a string value.

        Float:
            The global parameter is a floating point number. The value
            of this global parameter will be accessed using the stamp
            expression function in the input data node.
        String:
            The global parameter is a string. The value of this global
            parameter will be accessed using the stamps expression
            function in the input data node.
    Float Value:
        For a Float Variable Type, when the Variable Evaluation is not
        Evaluate Once, One Token Per Copy, this parameter controls the
        value that will be assigned to this global parameter.
    String Value:
        For a String Variable Type, or when the Variable Evaluation is
        Evaluate Once, One Token Per Copy, this parameter contains the
        string value or series of numeric or string tokens that will be
        used to set the value of this global parameter.
@inputs
    All:
        The inputs to this node supply the data that are to be copied.
@outputs
    First:
        The output from this node is a collection of data, with the
        specified number of copies of each of the input data.
@locals
    CY:
        The current copy number. You can use this variable in
        expressions to get different values for different copies.
    NCY:
        The total number of copies to be made.
    [Include:standard_locals]


