#type: node
#context: dop
#internal: gasequalizevolume
#icon: DOP/gas

= Gas Equalize Volume =

"""A microsolver that equalizes the volume of two fields."""

The Gas Equalize Volume DOP is a microsolver used in building larger fluid
simulations. The [Fluid Solver|Node:dop/fluidsolver] and [Smoke Solver|Node:dop/smokesolver] DOPs that allow
microsolvers to be added before or after the main solver step to extend
or tweak the simulation. Alternatively, advanced users may attempt
to build an entire new solver out of microsolvers.

The Gas Equalize Volume DOP adds a constant to an SDF so that its total
volume will match a reference field.   This can be used to
preserve total liquid volume or to get two disparate volumes to match.

Alternatively, it can add a constant to a divergence field to correct
the fluid.  This mode is more useful for FLIP fluids where the surface
field isn't read by the solver.

NOTE: 
    If you do not have a goal field, you must set the __Scale Goal Volume__ to 0 as the default goal field of 0 will be interpreted as a 50% opacity fog by the SDF conversion.

@parameters
    Two Dimensional:
	If two dimensional, areas will be computed rather than volumes
	to ensure the units remain independent of voxel resolution.
    Scale Goal Volume:
	The computed goal volume will be multiplied by this value.
	This is useful if you want to artificially increase the liquid
	volume compared to the reference.  This should be an SDF.
    Add Goal Volume:
	This constant will be added to the computed and scaled goal
	volume to form the final volume the SDF will be
	equalized with.  If scale goal volume is 0, this merely
	becomes the total goal volume.
    Max Change:
	The maximum amount the surface can move in a frame, measured in voxels.
    Blend Amount:
	The rate to change the volume to match the goal volume.
    Method:
	Toggles whether Gas Equalize volume uses the divergence of the fluid 
	(for FLIP fluids) or modifies the surface field of the fluid to keep 
	volume constant (for Level Set fluids).
    Delta Step:
	To estimate how much the volume changes for a given change in SDF
	value, this sized step (in voxels) is performed to estimate the
	effective surface area. 
    Integral Decay rate:
	When correcting by adjusting the divergence field, the correction
	may be insufficient.  The history of the errors is kept to dynamically
	control the correction rate.  This decay rate controls how quickly
	the history is lost.  A value of 0 means no memory is kept.  A value of
	0.5 means after 1/24th of a second, half of the memory is lost.
	A value of 1 never decays the recorded errors, which likely 
	will result in overshooting and oscillations.
    Integral Coefficient:
	The accumulated error is scaled by this coefficient when
	added back to the divergence field.  Larger values will have the
	accumulated error having a greater effect on the choice of 
	correction values.
    Fields:
	These parameters control what name will be used for the input
	fields and the internal fields.

	Surface Field:
	    The field to offset so that its volume matches the goal, if 
            Use Surface Field is checked.
	Goal Field:
	    The target field whose volume will be matched.
	Surface Volume:
	    A constant field that is computed that stores the total
	    volume of the surface.
	Surface Delta Field:
	    A constant field to store the size of the delta offset field.
	Goal Volume:
	    A constant field that is computed that stores the total
	    volume of the goal.
	Rolling Integral:
	    A constant field which stores the sum of the error in volume.
	Divergence:
            The divergence field Gas Equalize Volume will tweak to keep volume
            constant.

@outputs
    [Include:standard_data_outputs]

@locals
    [Include:standard_data_locals]

    [Include:standard_locals]



