#type: node
#context: dop
#internal: gasgeometrytosdf
#icon: DOP/gas

= Gas Geometry to SDF =

"""A microsolver that creates a signed distance field out of geometry."""

The Gas Geometry to SDF DOP is a microsolver used in building larger fluid
simulations. The [Fluid Solver|Node:dop/fluidsolver] and [Smoke Solver|Node:dop/smokesolver] DOPs that allow
microsolvers to be added before or after the main solver step to extend
or tweak the simulation. Alternatively, enterprising people may attempt
to build an entire new solver out of microsolvers.

The Gas Geometry to SDF creates a signed distance field from an
attached piece of geometry data.  The result is written to the given
surface field.  This allows one to update a signed distance field
against a geometry that might evolving mid-timestep.

@parameters
    Surface Field:
	The __Scalar__ field to write the resulting signed distance
	field into.
    Geometry:
	The geometry to use to build the signed distance field.

    Mode:
        Governs the method that will be used to generate the signed
        distance field.

        Ray Intersect:
            Rays will be fired at the geometry from various directions
            to determine where the surface is. The resulting field will
            be signed, so an offset of 0 will generate an iso surface
            separating the inside from the outside.
        Meta Balls:
            The Ray Intersect method determines if voxels are inside or
            outside the object by sending rays. This can result in leaks
            and other problems. If one is building an SDF from a
            collection of metaballs, one can instead determine
            inside/outside by looking at the metaball field. That is
            what this method uses. Note that Laser Scanning is likely
            unwanted when this method is used.
        Minimum:
            Exact minimum point to surface will be found. This is slow,
            but accurate. The resulting field is not signed, so one can
            only generate a shell around the geometry. An offset greater
            than 0 must be specified.
        Point Cloud:
            Only the points of the incoming geometry are used in
            constructing the field. If the points have normals, the
            normals are used to determine sign. Otherwise, the field is
            unsigned like in the case of Minimum. The Scatter SOP is a
            good way to create a good collection of points from
            geometry.
        Implicit Box:
            The geometry's bounding box is used to create an implicit
            representation.
        Implicit Sphere:
            The geometry's bounding sphere is used to create an
            implicit representation.
        Implicit Plane:
            The geometry is represented by a plane.
	Volume Sample:
	    The volumes in the incoming gdp are all sampled and the
	    sum of their values used to initialize the signed distance
	    field.  No correction is done after the fact, so the
	    result may not actually be a signed distance field if the
	    input isn't.

    Laser Scan:
        #channels: laserscan

        The Laser Scan mode only applies to the Ray Intersect mode

        In laser scan mode the SDF is build by sending rays along the
        primary axes. Only the closest and farthest intersection is
        used. The space between these two points is classified as
        inside, and the rest outside.

        The laser scan mode will work even with geometry which has
        poorly defined normals, self intersects, or isn't fully
        watertight. The disadvantage is that interior features can't be
        represented as they aren't detected.

        When laser scanning is turned off, the SDF is still built by
        sending rays along the primary axes. All intersections are
        found, however. Each pair of intersections is tested to see if
        the segment is inside or outside. This relies on the normal of
        the geometry being well defined (ie: manifold, no self
        intersections), and the geometry being watertight. Complicated
        shapes with holes can be accurately represented, however.

    Fix Signs:
        Even with the best made geometry, numerical imprecision can
        result in incorrect sign choices. This option will cause the SDF
        to be post-processed to look for inconsistent signs. These are
        then made consistent, usually plugging leaks and filling holes.

        This takes time, however, so can be turned off in cases where
        the SDF is known to generate without problems.

	Note that due to the nature of Fix Signs it also rounds sharp
	features in the SDF as they may be considered inconsistent
	signs.

    Force Bounds:
        The Fix Signs method alone will smooth out, and usually
        eliminate, sign inversions. However, it is possible for regions
        of wrong-sign to become stabilized at the boundary of the SDF.
        This option will force all voxels on the boundary to be marked
        as exterior. The Fix Signs will be much less likely to stabilize
        incorrectly then.

    Invert Sign:
        If one wants a hollow box, one method is to build one box inside
        the other and not use Laser Scanning. A more robust method is to
        just specify the inner box and use sign inversion. This treats
        everything outside of the box as inside, allowing the more
        robust Laser Scanning method to be used.
    Offset:
        The offset to build the iso surface on. The resulting surface
        will describe points at this distance from the original surface.
    Tolerance:
        The tolerance to use for building the SDF. This affects the ray
        intersection code. This tolerance is multiplied by the maximum
        bounding box size of the original geometry, so normally is
        independent of geometry scale.
    Sign Sweep Threshold:
	After the fix signs process is complete there can still be
	inconsistent areas in the SDF.  Large blocks can become
	stabilized and stick out of the SDF.  A second sign sweep pass
	can be performed to try to eliminate these blocks.

	The sign sweep threshold governs how big of a jump has to
	occur for a sign transition to be considered inconsistent.  If
	the values of the sdf change by more than this threshold times
	the width of the cell, it is considered an invalid sign
	transition.  The original geometry is then ray intersected to
	determine inside/outside and the result used to determine
	which sign is correct.  The correct sign is then propagated
	forward through the model.

    Max Sign Sweep Count:
	The sign sweeps are repeated until no signs are flipped (ie,
	all transitions are within the threshold) or this maximum is
	reached.  Too low of a sign sweep threshold may prevent the
	process from converging.  Otherwise, it tends to converge very
	quickly.

    [Include:standard_solver_parms]

@inputs
    [Include:standard_data_inputs]

@outputs
    [Include:standard_data_outputs]

@locals
    [Include:standard_data_locals]

    [Include:standard_locals]


