#type: node
#context: dop
#internal: gasparticleforces
#icon: DOP/gas

= Gas Particle Forces =

"""A microsolver that computes pairwise collision forces between
particles that represent instanced spheres."""

The Gas Particle Forces DOP is a microsolver used to build larger
fluid simulations. It is currently used to compute pressure forces in
the [Particle
Fluid Solver DOP|Node:dop/particlefluidsolver]. It computes and optionally applies
pairwise collision forces between particles.

Collision forces are found by looking at the instance path of each
particle.  That instance path is resolved into a path to attached
SIM_Geometry to the particle.  Spheres in that geometry are then used
for collision detection.  Where collisions occur, a very stiff
repulsive force is generated to separate the particles.

Spheres do not need to lie at the particle origin.  Instead, they can
be offset from the particle.  Collision forces will then generate
torque in addition to forces.

@parameters
    Geometry:
        The geometry containing the particle set for which collision
        forces are to be computed.
    Enable Pressure Force:
        Enables or disables pressure forces applied by this DOP.
    Poisson Ratio:
	A material property typically between 0-0.5. Affects the repulsion strength.

	Lower values increases the repulsion strength.  
    Elastic Repulsion:
	Controls the linearity of the particle's response to collisions.

	The default value of 1.5 is a commonly accepted value and typically 
	does not need to be changed.  
    Repulsion Strength (Young's modulus (Pa) ):
	Controls the magnitude of the restorative force to cancel
	collisions.  

	Lower values allow the particles to overlap
	longer before they separate.  Higher values increases the
	stiffness of the system and require more substeps to remain
	stable. 
    Viscous Dampening:
	Controls the linearity of the particle's response to dampening.

	The default value of 0.5 is a commonly accepted value and typically 
	does not need to be changed.
    Dampening Strength:
	Controls the magnitude of the dampening of collisions.  

	Lower values allows the elastic repulsion to dominate the collision response.
	Higher values dampens the collision response.
    Contact Resistance:
	Controls the linearity of the particle's response to contact friction.

	The default value of 1.5 is a commonly accepted value and typically 
	does not need to be changed.
    Contact Dampening:
	Controls the linearity of the particle's response to contact dampening.

	The default value of 0.5 is a commonly accepted value and typically 
	does not need to be changed.
    Rolling Friction:
	Coefficient of rolling friction. Typically much smaller than coeffient
	of sliding friction.
    Obj. Rolling Friction:
	Coefficient of rolling friction for objects in contact with particles.
    Obj. Impulse Duration:
	Controls the magnitude of the frictional impulse upon object-particle collision.
	
	Smaller values mean the impulse is large and this increases the stiffness of the system
	and simulation time. Larger values indicate object friction have less affect
	on the particles.
    Obj. Trans. Impulse Factor:
	Object's Translation Impulse Factor controls the magnitude of the object's
	impulse to slow the particle's translational motion.
    Obj. Roll. Impulse Factor:
	Object's Rolling Impulse Factor controls the magnitude of the object's
	impulse to slow the particle's rotational motion.
    Compute New Velocity:
        When this option is enabled, the DOP computes forces acting
        between particles and directly modifies the velocity attribute
        of the affected particles. If it is not, the DOP simply places
        the computed forces in the force attribute of the particles.
    Do Collisions:
	Any volume data marked as a collision relationship will also
	be included in the collision computation.
    Use SDF Velocity:
	Use object's SDF velocity for particle-object collisions
    Use GEO Velocity:
	Use object's GEO velocity for particle-object collisions
           
    [Include:standard_dataop_parms]
    
    [Include:standard_solver_mutualparms]
    
    [Include:standard_datagroup_parms]
    
    [Include:standard_dataname_parms]
