#type: node
#context: dop
#internal: gasupres
#icon: DOP/gas
#index: no

= Gas Up Res =

"""Upscales a smoke simulation to a higher resolution by adding
turbulence."""

The Gas Up Res DOP is designed to scale a low resolution
smoke simulation to a higher resolution one.  It adds detail by adding
turbulent noise at a small enough scale to avoid affecting the bulk
motion of the smoke.

@parameters

Fluid Type:
    This hint controls how source relationships are used.

	None:
	    Source relationships are ignored so only the original
	    density will be advected.

	Smoke:
	    Sources are added by the maximum of their fog value
	    and then density field.

	Fire:
	    Sources are added to the temperature and smoke fields.

	Liquid:
	    Density is considered to be an SDF so sources are
	    added as the minimum of the source SDF and the density
	    field.

	Pyro:
	    The Advanced::Pyro tab is used to control both the
	    sourcing of the new fuel/temperature/smoke, as well as
	    potentially recomputing the combustion model.

Use Low Res Source:
    Rather than computing the source relationship at the full
    resolution of the upres sim, it is computed at the lower
    resolution of the base sim.  This is faster and will preserve
    the fuzziness of the base sim's source.  Using the high
    resolution for the source will create a tighter smoke effect.

Auto Regenerate Rest Field:
    The turbulence needs a rest field so it tracks naturally with
    the smoke.  One option is to use the rest field from the base
    simulation, in which case this should be turned off.  If this
    is turned on, a new rest field is created.  This rest field is
    partly-updated on demand, so is not useful for shading
    purposes.

Rest Regeneration Threshold:
    How stretched the rest field can get before it is reset.
    Making this too near one will just cause the rest field to
    always be reset.

Rest Advection Speed:
    How quickly the rest field moves compared to the rest of the
    fluid sim.  Slowing down the rest field reduces the rate it
    stretches, but can cause the turbulence to appear to stick or
    lag.

== Turbulence Scale ==

    Source:
	Controls how the turbulence field is built.  The turbulence
	field defines a per-voxel scale for the amount of turbulence
	to add to the upres simulation.

	    Constant:
		No special turbulence scale calculation is done.
		However, if a turbulence scale field is provided, it
		will be multiplied with the amplititude.  This allows
		one to modulate the turbulence according to space.
	    Wavelets:
		A wavelet decomposition is performed on the low
		resolution velocity field and the power of the finest
		detail coefficients used as a multiplier for
		turbulence.  This will only introduce turbulence where
		there existed some in the coarser smoke simulation,
		thereby keeping smooth areas smooth.
	    Curl:
		The magnitude of the curl of the velocity field is
		used to scale the turbulence.  This matches the scale
		used for vortex confinement, for example, so will add
		extra turbulence where vortices are detected.

    Peak Turbulence:
	The output of the sourcing operation might not be in a 0..1
	interval.  The peak turbulence acts as the hard cap in the
	turbulence calcluation that will scaled to 1.

    Blur Radius:
	Sharp changes in the turbulence amplitude will result in kinks
	in the resulting velocity field.  The Blur Radius allows one
	to smooth out the turbulence field by the given world
	distance.

    Scale By Density:
	Multiplies the turbulence field by the low resolution density
	field, after the latter is sent through remap density.  This
	only works if there is a lowresdensity field which currently
	requires the Gas Upres Object to have Import Density turned on
	and be in Pyro mode for Fluid Type.

    Remap Turbulence Scale:
	The turbulence field is sent through this mapping to get the
	final amplitude.  This allows one to sculpt the fall off or
	perform an edge detection.

== Noise ==

    Amplitude:
	An overall scale to the added turbulence.
    Separate Temperature Amplitude:
	When performing a Pyro fluid upres you can have a different
	amplitiude for the temperature than the density.  One can thus
	have the temperature field move smoother than the density
	field.  This will double the cost of the operation.

    Compute Frequency Cutoff:
	Because the goal of the upres stage is not to affect the low
	resolution simulation, this automatic frequency cut off can
	have the solver properly determine what frequency will add
	detail without changing the base simulation's behaviour.
    Low Res Divisions:
	The divisions of the low resolution smoke.  This is used to
	determine the cutoff frequence for the turbulent noise.  The
	uniform divisions is divided by the largest size parameter to
	get the frequency.
    Size:
	The size of the low resolution smoke.  This is used only in
	calculating the cut off frequency.
    Frequency Scale:
	The calculated frequency is then multiplied by this scale.
	Values less than one will introduce lower frequencies,
	possibly overwriting frequencies already present in the base
	simulation.  However, because numerical diffusion has tended
	to dampen those frequencies already, it is often useful to
	dial this down to 0.7 to avoid their being an apparent
	frequency gap, or lacunarity, between the base sim and the
	upres sim.
    Temporal Frequency:
	Controls how quickly the turbulence changes over time.
    Noise Type:
	What form of noise basis to use for the curl noise.
    Turbulence:
	Controls how many octaves of noise are added.  Each octave
	doubles the effective resolution of the grid, so this should
	be set to the number of doublings.  For example, if the base
	smoke is 32^3 and the high res 128^3, there are two doublings
	so 2 octaves is necessary.  If you have a frequency scale of
	0.5, you will need an extra doubling to account for it.
	Turbulence above this amount will show up as chatter at the
	finest detail level, which may or may not be what you are
	looking for.
    Step Size:
	When computing curl noise, derivatives are computed by making small
	steps in each axis of this size.  If you have a very large (in terms of
	size, not resolution) simulation the default may lead to precision
	issues.  For example, a volume 10,000 houdini units on a size might
	need a stepsize of 1 rather than the default.

== Advanced ==
    These options control the resimulation that has to be done in the
    upres stage.  They are usually linked to the corresponding base
    simulation, but can be overridden to give a different behaviour in
    the upres.  For example, overriding soot rate with a lower value
    will cause the upres pyro solver to have less smoke than its base
    simulation did.

    Clear:
	Fields to Clear:
	    Zeros out the specified types of fields after the solve
	    step.  This ensures the .sim files, which store the
	    complete state of the simulation, do not have any
	    information not needed, reducing their size and save time.
		None:
		    No special clearing of fields is done.
		Hidden:
		    Fields not needed for the next time step that do
		    not have guide parameters are cleared.
		Static:
		    Fields not needed for next time step are cleared.
		    Note that some guides will thus start showing up
		    as zero as the underlying field got cleared.
	Additional:
	    A space separated list of extra fields that should be
	    cleared post-solve.

@outputs
    [Include:standard_data_outputs]


@locals
    [Include:standard_data_locals]

    [Include:standard_locals]


