#type: node
#context: dop
#internal: rbdautofreeze
#icon: DOP/rbdautofreeze

= RBD Auto Freeze =

"""Automatically freezes RBD Objects that have come to rest"""

The RBD Auto Freeze DOP provides an easy way to freeze down elements of
an RBD simulation that have come to a rest.

Freezing is done by adding a new piece of data to the [RBD Object|Node:dop/rbdobject] called
CumulativeMovement. This data tracks the total magnitude of the linear
and angular velocity over time. It stores a moving-average which ensures
that even if an object momentarily reaches equilibrium (say, at the top
of a bounce), the object isn't frozen. This does mean that the
thresholds have to be adjust depending on the simulation, however. The
default values are set up for approximately unit-sized objects.

Frozen RBD objects will continue to support other RBD objects, but will
no longer move as a result of collisions. This allows for faster
processing and ensures that no jittering will occur.

The Melt parameter can be used to wake up [RBD Object|Node:dop/rbdobject] on a per-object
basis. Note that barring the use of melt, once the object is frozen it
will stay frozen. Even if the ground disappears from under it, it will
continue to float in air unaware of the change.

NOTE:
    Often an RBD simulation will have a lot of objects initially at rest, then start moving, and then come to a rest a second time. The RBD Freeze DOP is supposed to mark as frozen objects that return to rest.

    For example, if you have a sphere dropping onto a ground plane, at frame 0 the sphere is stationary and has zero cumulative motion. We don't want to freeze this sphere so we wait for it to first acquire enough motion to be considered truly moving before it is eligible for freezing.


@parameters
    Activation:
        Determines if any testing will be done for auto-freezing. If
        this is zero, the objects are not tested for freezing and their
        active values are not updated. 

	If you are switching to keyframed
        animation, it is important to make sure that this parameter is
        zero during keyframed animation to prevent the active value from
        being overwritten.
    Group:
        #channels: /group

        Only the input objects which match the Object Group filter will
        be tested and frozen.
    Angular Velocity Scale:
        The angular velocity of an object is measured in degrees per
        second. A unit sized object moving its own length every second
        will have a velocity of 1, but the same sized object rotating
        once every second would have an angular velocity of 360. 

	Because
        this DOP tries to combine these two measurements, it is
        important to have a scale factor to bring them into the same
        general range. This factor can be approximate and, for unit
        sized objects, the default of 0.01 is good.
    Motion Decay:
        The total motion over time is tracked by adding the current motion and scaling the previous amount of motion by this decay factor.

        Values of `1` will cause motion to remain 100% intact, while a value of `.9` would cause the motion to decay to 90% of it's previous motion. A value of `0` will cause each frame’s motion to have to stand on its own. This means that objects at the top of their parabolic arcs may suddenly freeze.

        NOTE:
            This will also affect the values needed for the __Enable Threshold__ and __Freeze Threshold__.

    Enable Threshold:
        Before an object is a candidate for freezing, it must first
        attain a minimum cumulative movement. 

	By having a high threshold
        you can ensure that objects that are waiting to be hit are not
        frozen before they first get hit. On the other hand, if this is
        not high enough, moving objects may never become candidates for
        freezing.

        If you monitor the CumulativeMovement data over time you can
        get a good idea of a proper threshold for a simulation.

        Note that the Enable Threshold should always be larger than the
        Freeze Threshold or there is the risk that an object freezes
        before it manages to get moving.

    Freeze Threshold:
        When an object's cumulative movement has exceeded the Enable
        Threshold, it is then tested against the Freeze Threshold. When
        its cumulative movement falls below the Freeze Threshold, the
        RBD Auto Freeze DOP will turn off the Active Value for that
        object. This causes the object to stop reacting to the
        simulation. 

	The object's velocity is also zeroed out since,
        because its simulation has been turned off, it will no longer be
        moving.
    Melt:
        Setting the object's melt value to 1 will wake it up again if
        it is frozen. If it is not yet frozen, it will clear the history
        of whether the Enable Threshold has been reached. After setting
        the object's melt value to one, the object will not refreeze
        until the Enable Threshold is again reached and then the Freeze
        Threshold is passed.

        If the Melt parameter evaluates to non-zero, the object will
        have its Active Value set to one. The object will then react to
        the simulation. When the melt parameter is set to one, the
        object also resets the hasbeenbig flag in the CumulativeMovement
        data. The object thus will not refreeze until the Enable
        Threshold is again reached.

@inputs
    First:
        The RBD Objects who will be tested for automatic freezing.
@outputs
    First:
        The exact same set of objects that feed into the input are sent
        out through the single output.
@locals
    [Include:standard_locals]


