#type: include

Two Dimensional:
    One of the divisions of the voxel grid will be forced to one to
    create a two dimensional field.
Plane:
    If set to two dimensional, this plane determines which axes remain
    unaffected.
Division Method:
    If non square, the specified size is divided into the given number
    of divisions of voxels.  The sides of these voxels may not be
    equal, however, possibly leading to distorted simulations.

    When an axis is specified, that axis is considered authoritative
    for determining the number of divisions.  The chosen axis' size
    will be divided by the uniform divisions to yield the voxel
    size.  The divisions for the other axes will then be adjusted to
    the closest integer multiple that fits in the required size.
    
    Finally, the size along non-chosen axes will be changed to
    represent uniform voxel sizes.  If the __Max Axis__ option is chosen,
    the maximum sized axis is used.

    When __By Size__ is specified, the __Division Size__ will be used to
    compute the number of voxels that fit in the given sized box.
Uniform Divisions:
    The resolution of the key axis on the voxel grid.  This allows one
    to control the overall resolution with one parameter and still
    preserve uniform voxels.  The __Uniform Voxels__ option specifies
    which axis should be used as the reference - it is usually safest
    to use the maximum axis.
Divisions:
    The resolution of the voxel grid that will be used to calculate
    the smoke object. Higher resolutions allow for finer detail in
    both the appearance and in the resulting motion. However, doubling the
    divisions requires eight times the memory. 
    
    Since the substepping should be proportional to the voxel size,
    doubling the divisions may require double the substepping, resulting in sixteen times the simulation time.
Division Size:
    The explicit size of the voxels.  The number of voxels will be
    computed by fitting an integer number of voxels of this size into
    the given bounds.
Size:
    The size of the voxel grid. The size of each voxel will be this
    divided by the divisions.
Center:
    The position in world space of the center of the voxel grid.
