#type: include
Data Sharing:
    Controls the way in which the data created by this node is shared
    among multiple objects in the simulation. 
    
    Data sharing can greatly
    reduce the memory footprint of a simulation, but at the expense of
    requiring all objects to have exactly the same data associated with
    them.

    Do Not Share Data :
        No data sharing is used. Each object has its own copy of the
        data attached. 
        
        This is appropriate for situations where the data
        needs to be customized on a per-object basis, such as setting up
        initial positions and velocities for objects.
    Share Data Across All Time :
        This node only creates a single piece of data for the whole
        simulation. This data is created the first time it is needed, so
        any expressions will be evaluated only for the first object. 
        
        All
        subsequent objects will have the data attached with the same
        values that were calculated from the expressions for the first
        object. It is important to note that expressions are not stored
        with the data, so they cannot be evaluated after the data is
        created. 
        
        Expressions are evaluated by the DOP node before
        creating the data. Expressions involving time will also only be
        evaluated when this single piece of data is created. This option
        is appropriate for data that does not change over time, and is
        the same for all objects, such as a [Gravity
        DOP|Node:dop/gravity].
    Share Data In One Timestep :
        A new piece of data is created for each timestep in the
        simulation. Within a timestep though, all objects have the same
        data attached to them. So expressions involving time will cause
        this data to animate over time, but expressions involving the
        object will only evaluate for the first object to which the data
        is attached. 
        
        This option is appropriate for data that changes
        over time, but is the same for all objects such as a [Fan Force
        DOP|Node:dop/fan], where the fan may move or rotate over time.
