#type: include
[Include:standard_datashare_parms]

Activation:
    #channels: /activation
    Determines if this node should do anything on a given timestep and for a
    particular relationship. If this parameter is an expression, it is
    evaluated for each relationship. 
    
    If it evaluates to a non-zero value, then
    the data is attached to that relationship. If it evaluates to zero, no
    data is attached, and data previously attached by this node is removed.

Group:
    #channels: /group
    When used in conjunction with an [Apply Relationship|Node:dop/applyrel]
    node, this parameter is used to determine which relationships are
    acceptable to this node. 
    
    If the relationship is not recognized as part of
    this group, this data will not be attached to the relationship.

Data Name:
    Indicates the name that should be used to attach the data to the
    relationship. 
    
    Unlike the case of attaching data to simulation objects or
    other data, the Data Name here is not very important because a
    relationship can only have a single piece of data attached to it at a
    time. This Data Name can thus be used simply to help identify the purpose
    of the relationship.

Affected Objects:
    If objects are connected to the first input of this node, this parameter
    specified the set of input objects that will be the affected objects in
    the relationship. 
    
    If used in conjunction with an
    [Apply Relationship|Node:dop/applyrel] node, this parameter is not used
    because that node defines the actual relationship.

Affector Objects:
    If objects are connected to the first input of this node, this parameter
    specified the set of input objects that will be the affector objects in
    the relationship.

Relationship Name:
    If objects are connected to the first input of this node, this parameter
    specifies the name of the relationship. If this parameter value matches
    the name of an existing relationship, that relationship will be replaced.

Unique Relationship Name:
    If objects are connected to the first input of this node, this parameter
    can be turned on to ensure that a unique relationship name is generated by
    this node. 
    
    This ensures that no existing relationship will be overwritten
    by the one defined by this node.

Make All Objects Mutual Affectors:
    If objects are connected to the first input of this node, turning this
    parameter on causes the union of the affector and affected object
    parameters to be placed into both the affector and affected object lists
    for the relationship. 
    
    This is often used as a shortcut to specifying the
    same list of objects in both the Affector and Affected Objects parameters.
    
