#type: node
#context: dop
#internal: vectorfieldvisualization
#icon: dop/vectorfieldvisualization

= Vector Field Visualization =

"""Visualizes a vector field."""

The Vector Field Visualization DOP visualizes a Vector Field data.
The resulting visualization can allow one to determine how a field is
behaving over time, or can even be Object Merged into SOPs to produce
the final output.

@parameters
    Show Guide Geometry:
        Controls if the geometry should be visualized at all.
    Bounding Box:
        Draws a bounding box encompassing the field.
    Bounding Box Hash:
        Adds hash marks along the axes leaving the origin of the
        bounding box marking the divisions between each voxel.  The
        hash marks are drawn larger for every tenth and every
        hundredth.
    Color:
        The color to use in visualization.  If not otherwise colored
        by the Visualization Type, the streamers and arrows will use
        this.
    Scale:
        The velocity lines are drawn proportional to the strength of
        the velocity field.  This scale acts as an overall modifier to
        increase or decrease the lengths.
    Override Divisions:
        A dense set of arrows in a high resolution velocity field can
        quickly become impossible to visualize.  
        
        By overriding the
        divisions, you can choose a subset of sample points to use as
        the sampling points, leading to a less crowded and more
        intelligible display.
    Divisions:
        The number of sampling divisions in x, y, and z for when the
        override divisions is enabled.
    Use Barbs on Vectors:
        A small back-tick is added to each vector to make the front of
        the vector clear.
    Component Velocities:
        Rather than drawing lines in the direction of the velocity,
        three axis-aligned lines will be drawn.  
        
        This also allows one
        to see the exact velocity field when dealing with Face Sampled
        vector fields as these lines will start at each of the faces
        of the voxels rather than the center.
    Use Streamers:
        From each starting location, a streamer will be sent through
        the current velocity field to track how the field moves.
    Streamer Length:
        The distance in world space that each streamer will travel.
        
        The streamers will only terminate early if they reach a
        zero speed portion of velocity field, so note that very slow
        velocity fields will have the same length streamers as fast
        velocity fields.
    Streamer Minimum Speed:
        The cut-off speed at which the streamer will be abandoned.
    Plane Orientation:
        The streamers originate along an axis aligned grid - this
        specifies which axes.
    Plane Position:
        The center of the plane which generates the streamers.  
        
        NOTE:
            It is sized according to the vector field's size, so only the coordinate aligned to the grid's normal is relevant.
    Visualization Type:
        The method for coloring the velocity lines or the streamers.

        None:
            The color parameter is used uniformly.

        Distance:
            The color ramps according to the visualization mode with
            the start of the streamer being the 0 color and the end
            the 1 color.
            
        Speed:
            The color ramps according to the local magnitude of the
            vector field.  This is scaled by the Visualization Scale.

        Origin:
            Each streamer or vector is colored uniformly based on its
            origin location on the seed plane.

        Direction:
            The vector is colored using its normalized direction in an
            RGB cube.

    Visualization Mode:
        How to convert the range of visualization type into colors.

        Infra-Red:
            False color is used with blue being 0 and red being 1.
        White to Red:
            White is used for 0 and red is used for 1.
        Grayscale:
            Black is used for 0 and white is used for 1.
        Black Body:
            A black (0) to red to yellow to white (1) ramp is used.

    Visualization Scale:
        The magnitude of the vector is multiplied by this to determine
        the actual speed to use in the Speed Visualization Type.

@outputs
    [Include:standard_data_inputs]

@outputs
    [Include:standard_data_outputs]

@locals
    [Include:standard_data_locals]

    [Include:standard_locals]

@related
    - [Node:dop/vectorfield]
    - [Node:dop/sopvectorfield]
