#type: node
#context: dop
#internal: volume
#icon: DOP/volume

= SDF Representation =

""" Creates a signed distance field representation of a piece of
geometry that can be used for collision detection. """

The SDF Representation DOP creates a signed distanced field from
a piece of geometry. A signed distance field (SDF) is a function over
space which evaluates to the distance to the surface of the object. 

If the point is outside the object, the distance is positive, if inside, it
is negative. This allows fast inside/outside testing at the expense of
initial precomputation and memory usage.

This data must be attached to a piece of geometry data for Houdini to
use it for collision detection. Houdini uses the parent geometry data to
create the SDF.

If a Geometry data is attached as subdata to this, it will be used
rather than the parent data for the geometry creation.  This can be
useful to override the behaviour with proxy geometry, or in the case
of Volume Sample, specifying an explicit external volume file.

@parameters

    == Data Options ==

        Mode:
	    Ray Intersect:
		Use ray intersection with the geometry to create an
		accurate volumetric representation of the geometry.
	    Meta Balls:
		Instead of using rays to determine if points are inside or
		outside, evaluate the metaball field.  
		
		This should be used
		with __Laser Scanning__ turned off on geometry that consists
		solely of metaballs.
	    Implicit Box:
		Calculate the bounding box for the geometry, and create a
		volumetric representation that precisely fills that bounding
		box.
	    Implicit Sphere:
		Calculate the bounding sphere for the geometry, and create
		a volumetric representation that precisely fills that
		bounding sphere.
	    Implicit Plane:
		Calculate the bounding box for the geometry, and create a
		volumetric representation that divides that box along its
		smallest axis. Everything below that plane is considered
		inside, and everything above is outside. 
		
		This mode is primarily useful for creating ground planes or immovable
		walls.

	    Minimum:
		Use the distance to the surface or curve.  If the Offset
		Surface is 0, no volume will be made.  A positive offset
		surface will create just that - an offset volume around
		the object's surface.  This is useful for turning thin
		objects or wires into actual solids.
	    Volume Sample:
		The divisions are ignored in this mode, instead they are
		computed from the first volume or VDB primitive in the geometry.
		The computed divisions are chosen to match the voxel
		size of the source volume.
		The volume primitive is sampled raw and treated as a
		signed distance field.  The assumption is that the source
		is the output of an [Iso Offset|Node:sop/isooffset] or
		[VDB From Polygons|Node:sop/vdbfrompolygons] SOP.  If it isn't a true
		signed distance fields, unusual things may happen with RBD
		collisions.
	    Height Field:
		The volume primitive is treated as a 2d heightfield
		storing the world-distance heights above the center
		of the volume in each voxel.  Distances are always
		computed orthographically, so are fast but are
		not true distances.  Likewise, normal computation
		will give the height direction, not the local
		slope.
        Divisions:
            #channels: /div

            Defines the resolution of the grid used to compute the SDF.
            The SDF is computed within a bounding box slightly larger
            than the geometry. The minimum feature size of the geometry
            should thus be larger than the grid spacing or detail will
            be lost.
        Laser Scan:
            In laser scan mode the SDF is built by sending rays along
            the primary axes. Only the closest and farthest
            intersections are used. The space between these two points
            is classified as inside, and the rest outside.

            The laser scan mode will work even with geometry which has
            poorly defined normals, has a self-intersecting surface, or
            isn't watertight. The disadvantage is that interior features
            can't be represented as they are not detected.

            When laser scanning is turned off, the SDF is still built
            by sending rays along the primary axes. All intersections
            are found, however. Each pair of intersections is tested to
            see if the segment is inside or outside. This relies on the
            normal of the geometry being well defined (ie: manifold, no
            self-intersections), and the geometry being watertight.
            Complicated shapes with holes can be accurately represented,
            however.

        Fix Signs:
            Numerical imprecision can result in incorrect sign choices
            even with the best made geometry. This option will cause the
            SDF to be post-processed to look for inconsistent signs.
            These are then made consistent, usually plugging leaks and
            filling holes.

            Turning off this option will reduce the time required to
            construct an SDF but should only be done for cases where the
            generated SDF is known to be problem free.

        Force Bounds:
            The Fix Signs method alone will smooth out, and usually
            eliminate, sign inversions. However, it is possible for
            regions with inverted signs to stabilize at the boundary of
            the SDF. 
            
            This option will make Fix Signs less likely to
            stabilize incorrectly by forcing all voxels on the boundary
            to be marked as exterior.
        Invert Sign:
            This option will reverse the sense of inside and outside.
            If one wants a hollow box, one method is to build one box
            inside the other and not use Laser Scanning. 
            
            A more robust method is to just specify the inner box and use sign
            inversion. This treats everything outside of the box as
            inside, allowing the more robust Laser Scanning method to be
            used.
        Offset:
            The offset parameter allows the volume to be expanded with
            a positive value, or shrunk with a negative value. If the
            volume is expanded, an object can be treated as if it were
            slightly bigger during collisions.
        Tolerance:
            This specifies the tolerance used for ray intersections
            when computing the SDF. This value is multiplied by the size
            of the geometry and is scale invariant.
	Sign Sweep Threshold:
	    After the fix signs process is complete there can still be
	    inconsistent areas in the SDF.  Large blocks can become
	    stabilized and stick out of the SDF.  A second sign sweep pass
	    can be performed to try to eliminate these blocks.

	    The sign sweep threshold governs how big of a jump has to
	    occur for a sign transition to be considered inconsistent.  If
	    the values of the sdf change by more than this threshold times
	    the width of the cell, it is considered an invalid sign
	    transition.  The original geometry is then ray intersected to
	    determine inside/outside and the result used to determine
	    which sign is correct.  The correct sign is then propagated
	    forward through the model.
	Max Sign Sweep Count:
	    The sign sweeps are repeated until no signs are flipped (ie,
	    all transitions are within the threshold) or this maximum is
	    reached.  Too low of a sign sweep threshold may prevent the
	    process from converging.  Otherwise, it tends to converge very
	    quickly.

    == Guide Options ==

        Show Guide Geometry:
            Turn on this parameter to present a visual representation
            of the SDF in the viewport. This can be very useful to help
            find collision problems, as often they may be the result of
            an insufficiently detailed SDF.
        Color:
            Use this parameter to select the color of the volume in the
            viewport.
    [Include:standard_data_parms]

@inputs
    [Include:standard_data_inputs]

@outputs
@locals
    [Include:standard_data_locals]

    [Include:standard_locals]


@related
    - [Node:dop/clothvolumecollider]
    - [Node:dop/volumecollider]
    - [Node:dop/wirevolumecollider]

