#type: node
#context: chop
#internal: blendpose
#icon: OBJ_STATE/blendpose

= BlendPose =

"""Performs multi-dimensional, example-based interpolation of channels."""

This CHOP performs channel interpolation using an example-based method. Each example is taken from the pair of samples provided from the source and input channels. The data from the first input is then interpolated so that the target values will be obtained if the input values match the source values.

The first input specifies the channels used for the interpolation.

The second input specifies the source channels. This must contain the same number of channels as the first input.

The third input specifies the target channels. Each sample here is paired with the corresponding sample in the source channel. Thus, the length in samples of this input must matched with the second input. However, a different number of channels from the second input is
allowed.


@parameters

== Fit ==

Interpolant:
    Interpolation method.

    Radial Basis Functions:
        This class of interpolants provide smooth results that will likely match the example data.
    Hyperplane:
        This interpolant will create a plane of best fit. The results will likely not match the example data.
Clamp Input:
    If enabled, this will clamp the input data to the corresponding value range of the source input before interpolating.
Extrapolate Beyond Examples:
    If enabled, a best fit method will be used for the extrapolation of data outside of the source inputs.
Best Possible Extrapolation:
    This option is only used when __Extrapolate Beyond Examples__ is enabled. Turning this on will first maximize the interpolation using the plane of best fit, and then interpolate the remaining differences using the radial basis functions. This gives closer fits to the
    hyperplane method especially for kernel functions that specify a falloff. For those kernel functions, turning this option will also result in faster cooking. This option can give better results when there is high spatial correlation in the examples.
Kernel:
    This specifies the kernel function used for the Radial Basis Functions interpolant. Different kernel functions will result in varying fits.
Exponent:
    Specifies the exponent used for the Thin Plate kernel function. Larger values will give smoother results.
Fall Off:
    Specifies the fall off factor for the Gaussian, Multiquadric, Inverse Multiquadric, and Exponential Bump kernel functions. Larger values will give smoother results.
Solver:
    Specifies the solver method used for the interpolation.

    Fast:
        The Cholesky solver is faster but not as stable.
    Robust:
        The SVD solver is slower but will produce the higher quality interpolations.
Damping:
    Specifies the damping used for the Cholesky solver. This is normally not needed unless the solver is failing. In that case, start with a very small damping value like 0.00001 for
    example. Then use successively larger values like 0.0001, 0.001, 0.01, etc. until the solver succeeds.
Maximum Iterations:
    Specifies the maximum number of iterations that the SVD solver performs. If the SVD solver fails, then increase this value until the solver succeeds.
            
[Include:common#common]

@related
    - [Node:chop/comp]

