#helpid: h.node.rop.rendercontrol

= Render Control window =

@parameters

Enable Overrides:
    If this option is turned off, you will not be able to modify any of the values in this window.

Frame Range:
    Use Node Range Settings:
        Render the valid frame range of the output driver being rendered. If the valid frame range toggle is off, the global animation range is used.
    Current Frame Only:
        The current frame ($F) is rendered.
    Specify Frame Range:
        Any frame range can be entered, along with a frame step. 

    The frame range setting affects all output drivers. Output drivers will not render outside their valid frame range, so if the two ranges overlap partially, only the overlapping range will be rendered. The Batch and Frame Dependency output drivers can also cause frames to be rendered outside this range.
    
Output:
    Use Node Output:
        Renders the path of the output driver.
    Flipbook:
        Renders to a flipbook.
    
Resolution:
    Many output drivers have a resolution setting that can be scaled down to perform faster render tests. The scale factor is applied to all output drivers that output images. You can choose a preset resolution, or specify your own.
    
Quality:
    Allows you to specify the quality of the render. This setting provides a quick way to speed up render tests without modifying the renderer settings in the output driver. The three quality levels are low, medium and normal.
    
    Low:
        * Super-sampling is set to 2x1 (if lower than the output driver setting).
        * Motion blur is disabled.
        * Depth of Field is disabled.
        * Ray Tracing is disabled.
        * Irradiance is disabled.
    
    Medium:
        * Super-sampling is set to 2x2 (if lower than the ROP setting).
        * Motion blur disabled.
        * Depth of Field disabled.
        
    Normal:
        All output driver settings are used. Nothing is disabled.

Render:
    Only this node:
        Renders the output driver that launched the Render Dialog.
    This Node and All Inputs:
        Renders the output driver that launched the Render Dialog and all of its inputs.
    
Order:
    Frame by Frame:
        Renders a frame for all the output drivers in the network, and then moves on to the next frame. This method produces final results much faster than node by node, as the first final frame will be finished much sooner in the render process.
        
    Node by Node:
        Renders the entire frame range for each output driver, before moving on to another one. This mode is more efficient overall, since some output driver types can execute faster in sequence than frame by frame. However, the first output frame is produced at almost the end of the render process.
        
    NOTE:
        Frame by frame mode is great for interactive previews, while node by node is more efficient for overnight renders.

Render All Bypassed/Locked Nodes:
    If this option is turned on, the output driver acts as if the bypass or lock flags are turned off. This is useful for doing a clean re-render from scratch, if some branches were locked off for partial rendering of the network.
    
