#type: node
#context: shop
#internal: v_gilight
#icon: SHOP/v_gilight

= VEX Global Illumination =

"""This light source can be used to add some global illumination
effects."""

This light source can be used to add some global illumination effects.

There are two techniques for computing global illumination. Irradiance
computation will sample the hemisphere over the point being shaded to
compute the incoming "ambient" light. This operation is typically
quite expensive but can be sped up using irradiance caching (see the
mantra output driver)

Photon maps are another mechanism to allow evaluation of the indirect
light paths to the surface. These can be used to simulate caustics or
more complex irradiance effects. It is possible to specify up to two
photon maps.

Caustic map:
    This map contains photons which have been
    bounced off a specular or transparent surface.

Global map:
    This map contains photons which have been
    bounced off any diffuse surfaces.
    
If you want both global illumination and caustics, you can specify both
photon maps.

When just evaluating ambient occlusion, the irradiance of other surfaces
will not be evaluated. This speeds up computation but provides a simpler
lighting model (i.e. no color bleeding) When computing irradiance (or
ambient occlusion), it is possible to specify what the color of rays
which don't hit objects is. This is done by using an environment map or
by specifying a constant background color. When specifying an
environment map, the map color can be tinted. As well, the space of the
environment map may be specified by specifying a null object.

See [how to create an environment/reflection map|/render/envmaps].

@parameters

== Irradiance ==

Global Tint:
    An overall multiplier on the global illumination. This
    affects all aspects of illumination (i.e. environment,
    background, photon maps, irradiance, etc.).
    
Irradiance Style:
    No Irradiance:
	Disable irradiance calculations entirely.  Lighting will be
	computed solely from the specified photon map files.

    Ambient Occlusion:
	Lighting will be computed from the environment map or background
	color for rays that miss geometry.

    Transparent Ambient Occlusion:
	Lighting will be computed from the environment map or background
	color for rays that miss geometry.  Rather than treating any hit
	surface as fully opaque, Transparent Ambient Occlusion will
	attenuate the environment color by the opacity of hit surfaces
	resulting in a more accurate result in scenes using transparency.
	There is a small additional performance penalty to using this mode
	as opposed to plain Ambient Occlusion since shaders need to be
	executed on hit surfaces.

    Full Irradiance:
	The surface color (Cf) will be computed on the hit surface by
	executing the surface shader.  This is the most computationally
	intensive mode, as the hit surface must execute in full - including
	texture lookups and lighting.  When using full irradiance, it is
	often beneficial to specify a global photon map that includes
	direct lighting - as this will prevent hit surfaces from executing
	all light shaders.
    
Sampling Quality:
    The number of rays to send out for irradiance/ambient
    occlusion.
    
Adaptive sampling:
    Turns on an automatic optimization that will reduce the
    number of samples when there is little variation in occlusion
    above the sample point. This can improve performance at the
    expense of some possible flickering or additional noise.  Adaptive
    sampling will only take effect with more than 64 samples.

Maximum distance:
    Maximum distance from the sample point to consider geometry
    for irradiance/occlusion.
    
Environment map:
    If irradiance/occlusion rays miss all objects in the scene,
    lookup the color from this environment map rather than
    returning the background color. The environment map should
    most likely be a .rat file which was processed by the
    stand-alone tool isixpack.
    
Environment tint:
    Tint the environment map by this color.
    
Null object:
    This parameter refers to a null object in the scene. The
    null object is used to specify the orientation of the
    environment map (only rotations matter). If no object is
    specified, then the transform of the light this shader is
    bound to will be used to orient the environment.
    
Background color:
    If irradiance/occlusion rays miss all objects in the scene,
    use this color. If there is an environment map specified,
    then this parameter is ignored.

== Photon Maps ==

Global Map:
    For secondary irradiance (or primary irradiance if no
    ray-traced irradiance is used), this photon map will be used
    to estimate irradiance.
    
Global Sampling:
    How many photons to use for irradiance evaluation.  When the photon map
    is prefiltered, normally this should be set to a small value (default
    1).

Global photon map stores direct lighting:
    Indicate that the photon map stores direct lighting.  When evaluating
    irradiance, mantra will ignore any lights other than the GI light
    shader.

Prefiltered Global photon map:
    Indicates that the global photon map is prefiltered.  Prefiltered
    photon maps require a much lower number of samples, since lighting has
    already been averaged during prefiltering.
    
Caustic Map:
    Specifies a map containing "specular" photons. These photons
    are typically the results of transmission or reflection.
    
Caustic Sampling:
    How many photons to consider when evaluating caustics.

Prefiltered Caustic photon map:
    Indicates that the caustic photon map is prefiltered.  Prefiltered
    photon maps require a much lower number of samples, since lighting has
    already been averaged during prefiltering.
    
