#type: node
#context: shop
#internal: v_supermat
#icon: SHOP/v_supermat

= VEX Super Material =

"""Phong, Blinn or Cook shading models use all three aspects of the
material: ambient, diffuse and specular color."""

Phong, Blinn or Cook shading models use all three aspects of the
material: ambient, diffuse and specular color.

Phong is the simplest and fastest to use of the three. Blinn has a
sharper specular highlight than Phong, which is good for simulating
metals and polished materials. Cook is similar to Blinn but has a
different method of computing highlights that have a sharper roll-off,
making it good for simulating highly polished materials such as glass.

This shader will use color and alpha information if it is bound to the
geometry.


@parameters
    Diffuse:
        Base color of material. Independent of eye position.
    Ambient:
        Global ambient light is scaled with object ambient light before
        being combined with the scene.
    Specular:
        Simulates light reflected from mirror-like micro-facets on
        surface.
    Reflect:
        Colors mirror-like surface reflections.
    Transmit:
        Scales the color of surfaces visible through a transparent
        object.
    Emit:
        Color of light emitted from the material. Does not illuminate
        surrounding objects.
    Refract:
        Index of refraction of material.
    Alpha Para:
        Degree of transparency when surface normals are parallel to the
        line of sight.
    Alpha Perp:
        Degree of transparency when surface normals are perpendicular to
        the line of sight.
    Alpha Roll:
        Controls rate of change from alpha para to perp.
    Diff Rough:
        Determines the amount of light scattering on surface. 0 is
        default. Values approaching 1 return an object that scatters all
        light causing spheres to look flat (like a full moon looks like
        a flat disk).
    Spec Rough:
        Determines size and shape of specular highlights.
    Fresnel:
        Controls reflection based on viewing angle.
    Shadow:
        Determines opacity of shadows.
    Shadow Bias:
        Fraction by which shadows or reflections are moved off surfaces
        to prevent rendering artifacts.

