#type: include

Work Item Generation:
    #id: pdg_workitemgeneration

    Whether this node generates [static or dynamic|/tops/intro#static] work items. You should generally leave this set to "Automatic" unless you know the node's work items can be computed statically, or that they need to be generated dynamically.

    Dynamic:
        This node always creates dynamic work items: it waits until the upstream work items are known, and generates new work items from the upstream work items.

    Static:
        This node always creates static work items: it creates the number of work items it thinks it needs based on the parameters (and any upstream static items) before the network runs.

    Automatic:
        If the input is static (a static processor, or a partitioner with only static inputs, or a mapper), this node generates static work items, otherwise it generates dynamic work items.

Command:
    #id: pdg_command

    The command line (executable and arguments) to run when the work item runs.
    If this field is empty the work item will not be scheduled, and will be
    instantly marked done once all of its dependencies finish. 

Cache Mode:
    #id: pdg_cachemode

    How the processor node handles work items that report expected file results.

    Automatic:
        If the expected result file exists on disk, the work item is marked as
        cooked without being scheduled. If the file does not exist, the item
        is scheduled as normal.

    Read Files:
        If the expected result file exists on disk, the work item is marked as
        cooked without being scheduled. Otherwise the work item is marked as
        failed.

    Write Files:
        Work items are always scheduled and the excepted result file is ignored,
        even if it exists on disk.

File Dependencies:
    #id: pdgnodedeps

    A list of files that should be copied to the PDG working directory before the first work item in this node is executed.  This can be used to ensure that supporting files like digital assets and custom scripts are available for the work item job.

    The specified paths can be absolute or relative to HOUDINI_PATH.
