= COP generators =

== Overview ==

Some COP nodes are _generators_, which means they can create new
sequences or planes. A generator can be used without any inputs,
with one input or with two.

When a generator has no inputs, it generates a new sequence of
frames. By default, most of the main generator parameters use
the Composite Project settings:

* Resolution

* Pixel Aspect Ratio

* Raster Depth

* Sequence Range

* Frame Rate

Each of these parameters may be overridden to enter specific
values.

If you are working consistently in a certain bit depth,
resolution or frame range, it is recommended that you alter
the Composite Project settings rather than individually
modify the generator nodes' settings. The Composite Project
settings, when changed, will automatically update all COPs
settings that are linked to it.

Color and Alpha are always created, though if the generator does
not include them in its Image Planes parameter, they will be
empty.

== Attaching a Node to the Merge Input ==

The Merge input is the main input on the top of the node. 
When connecting a node
to this input, the generator creates a new plane and merges into
that node's sequence. The plane may exist in the input, in which
case the generator can modify it using simple compositing operations
or replace it entirely. This process is called 'Inline Generation'.

When using Inline Generation, the parameters on the Image and
Sequence pages cannot be modified, as they are inherited from the
input.

NOTE:
If you disconnect the generator from its merge input, any
overridden generator parameters (Resolution, Pixel Aspect Ratio,
Sequence Range) will be modified to match the input's settings,
so that the generated output remains roughly the same.

== Attaching a Node to the Mask Input ==

The Mask input is the side input. Connecting a node to this input
will restrict the generated output to the area of the mask. This
mask can be selected from the list of planes in the connected node,
and inverted, brightened or dimmed, if desired.

If an input is connected to the Merge input, and the generator is
modifying one of the input's planes, the mask will blend the
generated output with the input.

The parameters for selecting the mask can be found on the Mask
page.