#type: include
div id="coppixelopdescription">>
    == Collapsible Pixel Operation ==

        This is a collapsible pixel operation. When placed in sequence
        with other collapsible pixel operations, the operations are
        combined into one operation at the final node in the pixel
        operation sequence. This is known as a collapsible pixel
        operation chain.

        Image data flowing through the chain is only quantized at the
        end of the chain. This allows the intermediate operations to
        produce and carry values outside the normal range of the pixels'
        data format, with floating point precision. The net result of
        this is a reduction in quantization error and black/white
        clipping (especially useful for integer formats).

        Collapsible pixel operations are recognizable by the light blue
        background color of the node's icon. If a node of a different
        color is inserted between two collapsible COPs, the chain will
        be broken at that point and the operations will not collapse
        anymore.

        Collapsible pixel operations are maskable and scopable. If one
        operation in the chain is masked, but the others are not (or do
        not share the same mask), the chain will be 'broken' at that
        point and quantization will occur at that node. Differences in
        scoping does not cause a break in the chain.

parameters id="coppixelopparms">>

    == Collapsible Pixel Operation Parameters ==

        Collapsible pixel operations can be combined with other
        collapsible pixel operations and have the result computed in one
        pass, rather than at each node. The operations must be in
        sequence, without other nodes between them.

        Do Operation in Unpremultiplied Space:
            The Color plane will the divided by the input alpha, and
            multiplied by the output alpha so that the color operation
            is done in unpremultiplied space. If this operation is in a
            collapsible chain, all the nodes in the chain must have the
            same setting of this parameter to avoid breaking the chain
            and quantizing.
        Quantize:
            If this node is in the middle of a collapsible pixel chain,
            you can force this node to quantize and store the images at
            this node.
