#type: node
#context: cop2
#internal: illpixel
#icon: cop2/illpixel

= Illegal Pixel =

"""Detects illegal pixels, like NAN and INF, in images."""

Shaders and renderers can generate illegal floating point values every
once in a while. This operation detects bad pixels, specifically NAN and
INF, and either highlights them or fixes them. It can also notify you
through a warning or an error which frame and plane have bad pixels.

Because the data is missing from that pixel, it can be zeroed out or
replaced by blending together surrounding pixels. When zeroing pixels,
the entire pixel is zeroed even if only one component is bad (to avoid
color shifting).

If pixels are replaced, and only a part of the pixel's components is
bad, only that component will be replaced. If a large block of bad
pixels is present, it will attempt to iterate up to 16 times to break
down the block. Large blocks will look like blurry spots in the image,
so you may want to limit the number of bad pixels to replace.

NOTE:
    Bad pixels are only detectable in floating point formats (16 and 32
    bit floating point). Integer formats will have already been
    quantized to a valid (but possibly random) color in the renderer,
    making them impossible to detect.

NOTE:
    Bad pixels will not be detected in planes or areas of the image that
    are not used during the cook.


@parameters

    == Illegal Pixel ==

        Illegal Pixels:
            Illegal pixels can be flagged or fixed. Often, flagging is
            used to debug the shader, while fixing is used to attempt to
            continue with the image as-is.

            "Fix by Blending Surrounding Pixels":
                For small numbers or isolated pixels, this method will
                work well to fix the image.
            "Fix by Zeroing":
                This method clears the NANs so that downstream
                compositing operations behave, but doesn't do much in
                the way of visually correcting the image.
            "Show by Highlighting":
                Shows bad pixels by highlighting them super-red
                (20,0,0).
            "Show by Isolating":
                Shows bad pixels by highlighting them and clearing all
                correct pixels.
        Notification:
            If a bad pixel is found, this operation can raise a warning
            or an error.

            "None":
                The node is not flagged with an error or warning, though
                the number of bad pixels is still reported in the node
                info.
            "Warning":
                A warning flag is posted with the number of bad pixels
                in the node info.
            "Error":
                An error is raised. The number of bad pixels is printed
                in the node info, but it may not be entirely accurate
                because this will terminate the cook, and no more tiles
                will be processed.
            "Error if Over Limit":
                An error is raised if the number of bad pixels in a
                single plane is greater than the limit specified.
                Otherwise, a warning is raised.
        "Illegal Pixel Limit":
            The number of acceptable bad pixels. If more than this
            number are in the image, the cook will halt.
@locals
    [Include:coplocalvars]


