#type: node
#context: cop2
#internal: timescale
#icon: COP2/timescale

= Time Scale =

"""Stretches or compresses a sequence in time."""

This operation stretches or compresses a sequence in time. Frames are
either dropped, doubled or interpolated. If interpolation is not used,
this operation will not use any cache memory.


@parameters
    Scale Method:
        Select a method for changing the timing.

        Modify Sequence Length Only:
            Changes the length of the sequence without changing the
            frame rate; the sequence will be longer or shorter in time.
        Modify Sequence Length, Same Time Span:
            Changes the length of the sequence Time Span and adjusts the
            frame rate so the sequence is the same time length.
        Modify Frame Rate Only:
            Only changes the frame rate. The sequence becomes longer or
            shorter, but the number of frames stays the same.
        Modify Frame Rate, Same Time Span:
            Changes the frame rate and increases Span or decreases the
            number of frames to keep the sequence the same time length.
    Interpolation:
        When increasing or decreasing the number of frames in the
        sequence, this parameter determines the frame(s) to use for the
        output frames.

        Previous Frame:
            Uses the input frame exactly at or before the time of the
            output frame.
        Closest Frame:
            Uses the input frame exactly at or closest to the time of
            the output frame.
        Next Frame:
            Uses the input frame exactly at or after the time of the
            output frame.
        Blend Nearest Frames:
            Picks the 2 closest frames and linearly blends them
            together, weighting them with how close each input frames'
            time is to the output frame.
    Frame Rate:
        The frame rate, for methods that require it.
    Length Method:
        Specifies how to change the length of the sequence, for Scale
        Methods that require it (see below).
    Length Scale:
        Changes the length of the sequence by a scale factor. Scales
        greater than 1 increase the length, scales less than 1 decrease
        it.
    Sequence Length:
        Specifies the new length of the sequence, in frames.
    Length Difference:
        Specifies how many frames to add or subtract from the input
        sequence length.
@locals
    [Include:coplocalvars]


@related
    - [Node:cop2/reverse]
    - [Node:cop2/shift]
    - [Node:cop2/warp]

