#type: node
#context: material
#internal: basicflame

= Basic Flame =

"""A constant material where the density value of the volume drives the color ramp."""

This material is a constant shader.
The density value is used as a lookup into the list of colors or the texture map.
This value does not determine the opacity of the smoke.
No lighting is needed with this material. 
It is treated as an emitter, so there is no self-shadowing.

@parameters

    Values between the two have a density of Flame Density.  (If it is
a shadow pass, they have a density of shadow density)
    The color is a function of the value - the three low, mid, and
high colors are blended together to create a ramp that is used.

Low Value:
    If the density is less than this value, the smoke is transparent.

Low Color:
    If the density is less or equal to the low value, this color is used.
    Defaults to orange.

Mid Value:
    This si the midpoint of the color and transparency ramps.

Mid Color:
    If the density equals the mid value, this color is used.
    Otherwise the color is a blended ramp towards either the high or low colors.
    Defaults to yellow.

High Value:
    If the density is higher than the high value, it is clamped to the high value.
    The exception is if Hollow Interior is on in which case it returns to transparent.

High Color:
    If the density is higher or equal to the high value, this color is used.
    Defaults to white.

Texture Map:
    If a texture map is specified, that map is used as
    the color ramp and fit between the low and high values.  
    If the texture map has an alpha component that value is used
    as the opacity of the flames.

Flame Density:
    Values between the two have a density of Flame Density.

Shadow Density:
    This is density used for the shadow pass.

Hollow Interior:
    If this toggle is on, the opacity returns to transparent, 
    rather than staying at the high value.

Emission:
    Controls an additive component to the flame.  Rather than
    obscuring the scene behind the flame, the flame will have no alpha
    and just add to the brightness making it more of a light source.

@related

- [Spline |/nodes/vop/spline]
- [Materials |/shade/materials]
