#type: node
#context: material
#internal: dust_puff

= Dust Puff =

"""A material suitable for using particles to render smoke or fog."""

This material is designed to be applied to particles that have a
Sprite POP to generate the attributes determining the size and
orientation of the sprite billboards.  It contains the appropriate
procedural to stamp billboards on each sprite.

Shading is done isotropically.  The material will be lit independently
of its normal, thus making it ideal to simulate smoke or fire.

This material relies on procedural noise rather than a texture map.

@parameters

== Color ==

Diffuse Intensity:
    Contribution of the diffuse term to the shading, used by PBR to
    scale the light contribution.

Use Base Color:
    Determines if Base Color contributes to the sprite color.

Base Color:
    This color is multiplied by the final color, providing a tint to
    the sprite.

Tint with Color Attribute:
    If set, the Cd attribute will be multiplied into the
    final color.

Opacity Intensity:
    Global control of the opacity of the sprites.

Opacity:
    Global control of the RGB opacity of the sprites.

Tint with Alpha Attribute:
    If set, the Alpha attribute will be multiplied into the
    final Opacity.  If no Alpha Attribute exists, Opacity is unaffected.

Specular Intensity:
    Global control of the specular shading.

Specular Color:
    This color is used to determine the color of the specular highlights.
    
== Noise ==

Noise Type:
    Determines the type of noise that is used in the material.

Frequency:
    The scale of the noise pattern.  Larger values give smaller, but not more 
    detailed patterns.

Offset:
    This vector positions the noise on the object in x,y, and z

Amplitude:
    The bounds of noise function, in the case of original Perlin noise, -1 to 
    1, are multiplied by this Overall Scale.

Roughness:
    This value sharpens or softens the edges of the noise.  Lower values are 
    softer, higher values sharper.  Sharper edges may cause aliasing issues in 
    motion.

Attenuation:
    This value shifts the median value of the noise.  Values greater than 1, 
    will dampen the noise down, whereas values less than 1 will sharpen the 
    contrast between the noise values.

Turbulence:
    This value controls the amount of details in the noise.  This is the number 
    of times the noise function is called and summed.  If the Frequency is 
    high, there is no need for much detail, 1 or 2 should be plenty. This can 
    affect the Amplitude of the noise as well since the smumming will result in 
    higher base values.

== Geometry ==

Geometry:
    Controls the parameters for the sprite procedural that creates a
    camera-facing sprite for each particle.  The size and orientation
    of the sprite are controlled by attributes on the particle that
    are set with the Sprite POP.  The velocity attribute controls if
    motion blur is done and what point attribute will be used as the
    velocity.  The FPS is used to determine the length of the motion
    blur - higher values will perform a shorter blur.  Note that the
    motion blur settings of the output driver will be ignored!
    Attributes lists the point attributes that will be passed from the
    particles to the surface shader.

- [Materials |/shade/]
