#type: node
#context: material
#internal: spritefog

= Sprite Fog=

"""A material suitable for using particles to render smoke or fog."""

This material is designed to be applied to particles that have a
Sprite POP to generate the attributes determining the size and
orientation of the sprite billboards.  It contains the appropriate
procedural to stamp billboards on each sprite.

Shading is done isotropically.  The material will be lit independently
of its normal, thus making it ideal to simulate smoke or fire.

@parameters

Ambient Intensity:
    Contribution of ambient lights to the shading.  Ignored in PBR.

Lambert Intensity:
    Contribution of the diffuse term to the shading, used by PBR to
    scale the light contribution.

Emission:
    Lighting independent shading boost.  This is done independent of
    the alpha, however, so will result in accumulation even where the
    sprite is transparent.  Useful for rendering self-lit phenonomon
    such as fire.

Use Base Color:
    Determines if Base Color contributes to the sprite color.

Base Color:
    This color is multiplied by the final color, providing a tint to
    the sprite.

Use Point Color:
    If set, the Cd attribute will be multiplied into the
    final color.

Opacity:
    Global control of the opacity of the sprites.

Use Point Alpha:
    If set, the Alpha attribute will be multiplied into the
    final Opacity.  If no Alpha Attribute exists, Opacity is unaffected.

Color Map:
    A texture map can be used to modulate the color and alpha of the
    sprite.

Temperature Map:
    Uses the temperature point attribute to look up a color/alpha pair
    for rendering.  Useful for rendering fire.

Geometry:
    Controls the parameters for the sprite procedural that creates a
    camera-facing sprite for each particle.  The size and orientation
    of the sprite are controlled by attributes on the particle that
    are set with the Sprite POP.  The velocity attribute controls if
    motion blur is done and what point attribute will be used as the
    velocity.  The FPS is used to determine the length of the motion
    blur - higher values will perform a shorter blur.  Note that the
    motion blur settings of the output driver will be ignored!
    Attributes lists the point attributes that will be passed from the
    particles to the surface shader.

- [Materials |/shade/]
