#type: node
#context: obj_state
#internal: cam
#icon: OBJ_STATE/cam

= Camera =

"""The Camera operation is used to manipulate camera parameters
interactively."""

The Camera operation is used to manipulate camera parameters
interactively. This operation allows you to move and orient your camera
and modify focus and frustum parameters through the use of three
handles.

== Orientation Handle ==

The Orientation Handle has 2 modes, 2D and 3D. The 2D mode can only be
seen when looking through a camera. The 3D mode is seen at all other
times.

== 3D Orientation Handle ==

The 3D Orientation Handle allows you to move and orient the camera by
either manipulating the camera origin or the focus point. Two
orientation manipulators appear one centered at the camera origin and
one centered at the focus. Each manipulator is made up of two
components, a pivot and a vector. The pivot allows you to move the
camera or focus point, and the vector allows you to orient the camera.
By default, moving or orienting the camera pivot will keep the focus
pivot fixed and vice-versa. Disabling the vectors (by clicking on one of
them) unlocks the origins so that the camera and focus move together.
Enabling the vectors allows the camera and focus origins to move
independently.

== 2D Orientation Handle ==

The 2D Orientation Handle allows you to move and orient a camera while
looking through it. In this mode, the orientation handle appears as a
set of 2D arrows within and surrounding a circle at the center of the
camera viewport. Arrows within the circle control translation, while the
two arrows and arrowhead outside of the circle control rotation.

Translation in x, y, and z is controlled by the three arrows inside the
circle. The arrow pointing to 12 o'clock controls the y (up and down)
translation, the arrow pointing to 3 o'clock controls the x (side to
side) translation, and the arrow pointing to 7 o'clock controls the z
(dolly in and out) translation. Drag these arrows in the direction they
point to move the camera.

Rotation about the x, y, and z axes is controlled by the arrowhead and
two arrows around and outside the circle. The arrowhead located directly
on the circle controls roll (z rotation). This arrowhead always points
towards the world's up direction. Rotate the arrowhead around the circle
to roll the camera's view in the same direction. (This is different the
other controls, which cause the view to move in the opposite direction.)
The arrow at 9 o'clock controls pan (y rotation) and the arrow at 6
o'clock controls tilt (x rotation). Drag these arrows in the direction
you wish the camera to rotate, but note that the view will move in the
opposite direction.

The 2D Orientation Handle has two modes of transformation, local and
global. In local mode, all transformations are performed taking in to
account the current state of the camera; a local translation in y, for
example, will not necessarily move the camera straight up and down in
the world, but will instead move the camera in the direction of its
current y orientation. In global mode, translations and rotations always
occur in global space; a y translation always moves the camera straight
up and down in the world.

By default, the 2D Orientation Handle operates in local mode. To operate
in global mode, hold ((Shift)) when using the handle's controls. To
change the default transformation mode to global for a particular
handle, right-click on the handle and select Transform Globally by
Default. To set the default transformation mode for all new handles,
open the __Handles__ pane of the [Houdini Preferences|/ref/windows/mainprefs#handles]
window and select __Default 2D Orientation Handle Transform Is Global__.
When a given 2D Orientation Handle's default transformation is global,
holding ((Shift)) will cause the transformation to be local.

== Focus Handle ==
The Focus Handle allows you to set the focus parameters for the camera.
The focus point is shown as a box bead with two arrow beads on either
side. Sliding these beads along the camera's view direction changes the
corresponding parameters for the camera. The two arrows change the
f-stop parameter. They represent two points where the image will be
twice as blurred as the focus. When snapping is turned on, these beads
can be snapped to elements whose location will then be projected back
onto the camera's view direction.

== Frustum Handle ==
The Frustum Handle allows you to modify the camera's view frustum
parameters. Sliding the two box beads on either side of the camera's
view direction will change the near and far clipping planes. Adjusting
the aperture (or orthowidth, if orthographic camera) can be done with
the scale manipulator.

== Frustum Clipping ==
The Camera operation allows you to visualize certain parameters in the
viewport. By enabling Full Frustum Clipping, everything that is outside
the viewing frustum will be displayed in the Template shading mode. If
your shading mode is Flat Shading and your Template shading mode is
Wireframe, for example, everything outside the camera's view will be
drawn in wireframe. Similarly, by enabling Focus Frustum Clipping,
everything that will have a blur factor larger than 2.0 will be shaded
with the Template shading mode.

== Crop Handle ==

The Crop Handle allows you to modify the crop parameters for the camera.
The crop handle appears as a box with circles at the corners and bars on
the sides. If the crop handle is not visible, make sure you're in camera
view and press ((RMB)) on the camera handle and turn on Crop Handle.

Drag the corners/sides to change the crop area. Drag the outline to move
the crop area. Hold ((Ctrl)) and drag the left or right side of the
outline to move horizontally, or drag the top or bottom of the outline
to drag vertically. Hold ((Shift)) and drag a corner/side to resize
opposite corners/sides at once.
