#type: node
#context: obj_state
#internal: light
#icon: OBJ_STATE/light

= Light =

"""The Light operation is used to manipulate light parameters
interactively."""

The Light operation is used to manipulate light parameters
interactively. This operation allows you to move and orient your light
and modify cone and frustum parameters through the use of three handles.

ORIENTATION HANDLE

The Orientation Handle has 2 modes, 2D and 3D. The 2D mode can only be
seen when looking through a light. The 3D mode is seen at all other
times.

3D ORIENTATION HANDLE

The Orientation Handle allows you to move and orient the light. It
behaves like the camera's Orientation Handle. Please see the Camera
operation help for more information.

2D ORIENTATION HANDLE

The 2D Orientation Handle allows you to move and orient a light while
looking through it. In this mode, the orientation handle appears as a
set of 2D arrows within and surrounding a circle at the center of the
light viewport. Arrows within the circle control translation, while the
two arrows and arrowhead outside of the circle control rotation. This
handle behaves like the Camera's 2D Orientation Handle; please see the
Camera operation help for more information.

CONE HANDLE

The Cone Handle allows you to manipulate the cone parameters for your
light. Click on the dotted lines to turn the Point Light into a Cone
Light. Once the cone handle is enabled, you can use it to set the cone
angle and the cone delta of the light by dragging on the circles at the
end of the cone. The size of the cone can be adjusted by sliding the box
bead that appears at the end of the cone. Sizing the cone is only used
for visualization and does not affect the rendering of your light.

FRUSTUM HANDLE

The Frustum Handle allows you to modify the light's view frustum
parameters as in the camera operation. Please see the camera operation
help for more detail. Using the right-mouse menu, it is possible to
enable the linking of the frustum to the cone angle. When this is
enabled, changes in the cone angle will affect the frustum and
vice-versa.



