#type: node
#context: obj_state
#internal: microphone
#icon: OBJ_STATE/microphone

= Microphone =

"""The Microphone object defines a listening point for the SpatialAudio
CHOP."""

The Microphone object defines a listening point for the SpatialAudio
CHOP. Multiple microphones can be used by one SpatialAudio CHOP to
create stereo or surround sound, with special effects like the doppler
effect, volume loss over distance, obstacle interference, atmospheric
filtering and positional audio.

To set up a Spatial Audio scene, one or more Sound objects should be
used to emit sound. At least one microphone is needed to capture the
sound. A SpatialAudio CHOP is needed to render the sound. If any
obstacles or filters are used, at least one Acoustic CHOP is needed to
design the spectrum filter.

Moving Sound and Microphone objects around will produce variations in
pitch and volume, especially if either object is directional. Setting up
a directional microphone or sound object is much like setting up a
directional light.

You select the object that will be used as the parent for the new
Microphone object, and right-click to complete the operation. The new
Microphone object appears with a transform handle that can be used to
change the position and orientation of the microphone. The sensitivity,
directional toggle and recording cone parameters appear in the operation
controls bar above the viewport.

You can change the Microphones's parent object any time by hitting the
Reselect Geometry button or typing `${h.pane.gview.redoselection}`. If
Secure Selection is turned off, selecting a new object will immediately
complete the selection and connect the new parent. Otherwise, you
right-click to signify that the object selection is complete.

If Secure Selection is turned off, you can select any other object in
the viewport. Doing so will switch to the operation appropriate for that
object type, and the current operation will be exited immediately.



@related

- [/shelf/lightsandcameras]

