= Spatial audio filters =

== What is a Filter? ==

    A filter is a series of volume controls per frequency. There are
    several types of filters.

    All pass and all stop filters:
        The simplest filters. An all pass filter passes all frequencies
        equally, and acts like a normal volume control. An all stop
        filter is an all pass filter with a value of 0... it does not
        pass any frequencies.

    Low pass filters:
        Pass low frequencies, but not higher frequencies. They usually
        have a transition period where increasing frequencies are
        partially passed. These filters are used to remove noise and
        mute sound. They normally make audio sound muffled. Low pass
        filters are excellent for modeling obstacles (like walls).

    High pass filters:
        The opposite of low pass filters. They pass high frequencies but
        not low frequencies. They tend to make audio sound tinny. High
        pass filters are an excellent choice for modeling atmospheric
        sound loss and reflections.

    Band pass filters:
        Pass mid-range frequencies, and not high or low frequencies.
        They are sometimes referred to as notch filters.

    Band stop filters:
        Suppress mid-range frequencies and pass both high and low
        frequencies. Both Band Pass and Band Stop filters aren't quite
        as useful for Spatial Audio as the previous filters, but they
        can be used for special cases.

== How to create a Filter ==

    The Acoustic CHOP lets you create a full or partial spectrum filter.
    You can create several filters can be created at once, with the
    added benefit that you can constrain multiple filters to preserve
    total signal power. You can then manipulate the filter with any
    other CHOP to modify the filter.

    Transmit, Absorb, Reflect:
        Toggle the transmission, absorption and reflection filters on or
        off. Normally, you will want to create one filter of a specific
        type.

    Frequency Range:
        The next parameter, Frequency Range, determines the range that
        the filter will cover. The beginning of the channel corresponds
        to the start of the range, and the end of the channel
        corresponds to the end of the range.

    Power and Lock:
        The Power and Lock parameters are for conserving power when
        creating several different filters for the same object. If an
        object reflects some sound and transmits the rest, you may only
        want to design the reflection filter and have the transmission
        filter automatically adjusted so that the total signal power is
        conserved.

        The Power parameter can be turned off for unconstrained
        modeling, set to "Conserve Total Power" so that the total signal
        power is conserved (but not the individual frequency power), or
        "Conserve Power Per Frequency" which ensures that each frequency
        has its own power conserved. The Lock parameter allows you to
        lock one of the filters so that it is not affected by the
        automatic power conservation algorithm (mainly for use with 3
        filters). If you increase one filter beyond 1, then power will
        no longer be conserved.

    No Resonance:
        The No Resonance parameter constrains the filter so that filter
        values cannot be increased beyond 1. This prevents the filter
        from adding power to the signal.

    Handles Page:
        The Handles page contains all the parameters for modeling. The
        Handles parameter specifies the number of interactive handles
        that are created. This can be changed on the fly, but may result
        in some data loss.

        Since audio filters are logarithmic in nature, it is easier to
        shape filters with logarithmically spaced handles. These will
        give you more control in the lower frequencies, and less control
        on higher frequencies. They are enabled by default, but you can
        use evenly spaced handles by toggling Logarithmic Handles off.

    Samples:
        The Samples parameter determines how many samples are in the
        actual filter. You can increase the filter accuracy by
        increasing the number of samples if you notice your filter is
        lacking resolution in areas of high detail.

    Interpolation:
        The Interpolation parameter specifies how the samples of the
        filter are interpolated from the handles (none, linear or
        cubic). Cubic produces smooth filters and None produces notched
        filters.

        You can reset all the waveforms to constant values by clicking
        Reset All Waveforms. If you want to clear a single filter, but
        not the rest, toggle that filter off, then on using the toggles
        on the Acoustic page.


